joy	emotional_events	When I got a record as a gift from a friend.
joy	emotional_events	I wanted to go out to walk but I didn't know either where or with whom, suddenly an invitation appeared.
joy	emotional_events	I felt a great joy when I knew that my father was going to sell the apartment from GUARUSA, because in some way we were helded by it, that means that we didn't go to any other place, because we had the apartment.
joy	emotional_events	When I discovered that I and my friend would be licensed at the first call. This emotion was accompanied by a great relief. It was the coronation of a year of sacrifice and extrene discipline.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I entered at the University.
joy	emotional_events	A meeting with the family and the friends I felt dear and loved, sharing the gladness of being together at a birthday.
joy	emotional_events	After making an effort to enter at University I found a course and a school of higher education which were compatible with my experience and potentiality.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I passed the worst phase in my life and discovered how many people considered me important to them.
joy	emotional_events	I didn't like my former fob and felt joy when I received a telegram offering me a new one that I though better and for which I had been waiting.
joy	emotional_events	The day that my boyfriend appeared at home with a pair of rings for our wedding.
joy	emotional_events	When people remember us and shows interest about what we do.
joy	emotional_events	I felt glad to live again when I went to a meeting about the \Knowledge\". There are 4 techniques of meditation that connect á|you with the essence of the human being."
joy	emotional_events	When I bought my car.
joy	emotional_events	The birth of my daughter.
joy	emotional_events	I found a human \treasure\" that I desired and got immediately. I á|didn't think about anything. When I touched him I imploded but I á|am whole."
joy	emotional_events	One of the greatest joiy was when I succeded in acquiring a motorcycle through my own efforts.
joy	emotional_events	When I got a stereo walkman from my father when he had finacial difficulties. I thought that although he promised to give me that present, he was not obliged to do so.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the whole weekend with my boyfriend, coming back home on Sunday afternoon he met my parents for the first time.
joy	emotional_events	I was in the living room at home with an ex-boyfriend, it was nearly a year that we had separated, during the talk he began to remember our courting and gave me a long kiss.
joy	emotional_events	Always when I meet the person I love.
joy	emotional_events	When I entered in the University after a year of struggles.
joy	emotional_events	A friend of mine travelled very far. I miss her but feel joy too because fer life is taking the right direction as she wants. So I feel joy for her mainly.
joy	emotional_events	When I met my mother after months of absence.
joy	emotional_events	I got a present from a great friend (a dog).
joy	emotional_events	When I can see my parents because now I am far from them.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the Bulgarian State Conservatoire.
joy	emotional_events	I have a new born child.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy most strongly some years ago, when I took part in a NH Competition and I was the first.
joy	emotional_events	When my nephew was born. The birth was hard, it was a big baby.
joy	emotional_events	Some time ago I was present at the wedding party of two close friends of mine.
joy	emotional_events	An encounter with a man whom I love, after a very long separation.
joy	emotional_events	At a success of mine, at a real achievement.
joy	emotional_events	For the first time in my life telling someone I loved them.
joy	emotional_events	When I met my boyfriend and we discovered that we shared the same ideals and goals in life, and that we could share all our feelings and thoughts and felt that the world's not so bad when you have someone really close to share your life with.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the driving test after three failures.
joy	emotional_events	For instance when a girl is interested in me and likes me.
joy	emotional_events	I sensed this feeling when I passed successfully the second tour of a competition.
joy	emotional_events	I was happy when at difficult times I could find support in my friend and my fiancT, I was happy because of their spiritual and moral help which gave me new power to struggle. I was happy then, I felt it in my soul.
joy	emotional_events	That was what I felt when I was finally accepted in the Bulgarian Conservatorie after I had applied a couple of years.
joy	emotional_events	My boyfriend made me a proposal.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard what mark I had got at the entrance examination and I realized my admittance to the University was almost certain.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to a Language school. On the day when I was informed by a message and my parents congratulated me.
joy	emotional_events	When you are satisfied with something, when you achieve something you have striven to.
joy	emotional_events	Having passed an exam.
joy	emotional_events	I'm glad when I have good relations with my colleagues and most of all when we are at a party.
joy	emotional_events	I experienced it when I was accepted at the Medical Higher Institute.
joy	emotional_events	After each successfully passed exam I am happy.
joy	emotional_events	After the term exams I happened to meet a person that I respect and of whom I think very highly. It was nice that although we see each other rarely he had not forgotten me.
joy	emotional_events	I experienced this feeling when I was accepted as a student. Because everything turned out different from my expectations. Although I passed the exam successfully I was accepted as a student only when I didn't expect it at all, namely at the beginning of September.
joy	emotional_events	Spontaneous picnic with sister and friend and children - great.
guilt	emotional_events	Reported neighbour to police for taking to my daughter with baseball ball - her counsellor rang me and after long talk convinced me the woman was o.k. I felt guilty for ringing the police then guilty for feeling guilty about it.
joy	emotional_events	Meeting with two of my friends I had not seen for 15 years. They were special people to me.
guilt	emotional_events	I removed an article of clothing belonging to my employer while in a position of trust.
joy	emotional_events	When we took out an 84 year old woman for the evening and had hamburgers. She described the evening out as her happiest night out in 20 years.
guilt	emotional_events	I had to leave an important function early because of family commitments. Someone else had to complete my job.
joy	emotional_events	I was seriously injured in a road accident. The very first steps I took with only one crutch to support me I felt so good. I enjoy being alive.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was young I stole something from a shop and got caught, then I was taken to the police station and my parents had to come and get me.
joy	emotional_events	When I found out that a set task (i.e. 2 essays and a test), the thought of which had oppressed me, were not on the date I had thought.
guilt	emotional_events	When I have forgotten to warn somebody for something, or when I have forgotten to bring something I have been asked for.
joy	emotional_events	When, for example, I was in my eleventh school year and I learned I had been classed for the Bulgarian Language and Literature National Olympiad.
guilt	emotional_events	For example, when I have promised something but I haven't fulfilled it.
joy	emotional_events	Some time ago a close relative of mine got off cheap with the worst.
guilt	emotional_events	It happens to me quite often. I can't describe a particular case.
joy	emotional_events	Realizing one's desire, an experienced feeling of satisfaction from the realization of one's desires and aims.
guilt	emotional_events	Low evaluation of other people's cares.
joy	emotional_events	I won a sport contest.
guilt	emotional_events	Lack of respect for my parents.
joy	emotional_events	When my son was born.
guilt	emotional_events	I forgot to convey an important announcement.
joy	emotional_events	Meeting a loved man.
guilt	emotional_events	When something unpleasant happens to a friend or relative of yours and you are at the bottom of it.
joy	emotional_events	I sensed such a feeling when I understood I was admitted to the University. I was at home, the atmosphere was still, though I myself was full of suspense. I tried to do different things. When the telephone rang and...! Yes, of course there were other situations when I felt a similar feeling but I was unmindful of them.
guilt	emotional_events	Quite unconsciously I offended a girlfriend of mine. It was really worthy to pass this fact over in silence, but I acted so, because I believed I was right. In fact it often happens to me to feel guilt, after I have already done the deed.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the University.
guilt	emotional_events	Always, and this happens often when I do not keep my word.
joy	emotional_events	When I understood that I was admitted to the University.
guilt	emotional_events	When I offend somebody unfairly.
joy	emotional_events	A quarrel was followed by the decision of leaving a person close to me. Several days later my regret was great. I was beside myself. Quite unexpectedly he came and the conflict was calmly solved. I was glad at the possibility to be with him.
guilt	emotional_events	At a moment of affect I offended a person very close to me. He had given me ground for that but it was a trifling in comparison with the way I insulted him. A moment later I felt a sense of guilt.
joy	emotional_events	When I understood I was admitted to the Sofia University.
guilt	emotional_events	My son drank four pills of diazepam every two hours instead of amidophen.
joy	emotional_events	I am a sportwoman as well. I felt joy when after an year of practice, at a contest, I covered the norms for \a master of sports\"."
guilt	emotional_events	When I had had the possibility to act or to do certain activity better but I had not done it because of reluctance or carelessness.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the University.
guilt	emotional_events	When I don't fulfill my obligations.
joy	emotional_events	When my affairs with the girl I love settled positively.
guilt	emotional_events	In a fit of temper I told things that were unjust and they greatly hurt my mother though she didn't show it.
joy	emotional_events	I passed successfully the preliminary exam for a participation in the children Assembly.
guilt	emotional_events	My father got a slight heart attack after a telephone call of mine.
joy	emotional_events	Bulgaria won a football match against France.
guilt	emotional_events	I didn't attend lectures.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when my two twin sisters were born.
guilt	emotional_events	Some days ago I had a slight car accident through my fault.
joy	emotional_events	The period when I was pregnant and when I gave birth to my son. I can say those were the happiest months in my life.
guilt	emotional_events	When I am not able to fulfill any request of my son - can't take him out to ride his byke, because I am tired.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I saw my daughter after a separation of twenty days.
guilt	emotional_events	When I don't justify the confidence of people that I respect.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the University.
guilt	emotional_events	I offended a person who had done much for me and who had helped me for everything.
joy	emotional_events	The day when my son said for the first time \mummy\"."
guilt	emotional_events	I ignored and offended my parents on the eve of the New Year.
joy	emotional_events	The sense of joy comes to me always after a period of depression, as an organic feeling for an upsurge. I don't exclude the situative feeling but in this case the reason is not in me, it's out of me.
guilt	emotional_events	I feel this feeling most often before me not before the others. My outside is iron but actually I'm wasting away.
joy	emotional_events	My son was born.
guilt	emotional_events	I didn't give back in time some money that I had borrowed. My friend relied on them.
joy	emotional_events	After 10 days of hard work and having suffered many changes I passed my last exam.
guilt	emotional_events	We had promised, with a friend of mine, to take our friends to a restaurant and after having looked for a place for hours without finding one, and not being helped by the others we had to give up the idea.
joy	emotional_events	When I am with friends and I do what pleases me this often happenes.
guilt	emotional_events	I got back too late after a Sunday going out without having called up home to tell where I was. my mother hadn't slept the whole night.
joy	emotional_events	I was happy when I understood that the girl I liked was in love with me.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother developed hipertonia and I think I too am to blame bacause with her it is a stress disease.
joy	emotional_events	When I met with friends that I hadn't seen for a long time.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when once I made my mother angry.
joy	emotional_events	Six months ago when I got acquaintanced with a person whom I trusted infinitely and from whom I expected help and friendly feelings. With him I found much in common - in our views and in our fate.
guilt	emotional_events	I didn't keep a promise I had made to a man, and in this way I lost his esteem and confidence in me. I caused him a lot of trouble.
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted as a student.
guilt	emotional_events	Recently when I made a slip and blurted out indecent words in my mother's presence.
joy	emotional_events	I felt it when on duty in the hospital I understood that I was not afraid to face death, that I also helped a little to relieve the pains of a patient.
guilt	emotional_events	I had an appointment with a colleague of mine to give her my lecture notes. I couldn't go and I didn't send them, and so the girl missed a day for the preparation of her term exams.
joy	emotional_events	When I knew that my husband and I were going to have a child.
guilt	emotional_events	The assistant professor saw me cheat at the preliminary examination.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when I got the message that I had been accepted as a student in medicine.
guilt	emotional_events	My grandmother has been in a hospital for a week and I still haven't had time to see her.
joy	emotional_events	When I learned that my parents were going abroad and leaving me alone for a few years.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty last year during the winter term exams. A colleague of mine asked me to give him my lecture notes (I had very good notes and I had passed my exam in advance) but I still don't know why I didn't give them to him. That colleague failed and he was on the verge of not passing it at the supplementary examinations.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the Institute. I had problems with many people about my applying for this institute and I decided to prove that one can pass excellently without visiting any preparatory couse. That is - I proved what I could do on my own.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was in the fifth class the rating was done in our mark-books. I hadn't been examined yet but I had heard from my classmates about the scolding they had got at home. My first mark was in geography - good 4. I judged I had known for more than that and I put down \very good\" for fear of being scolded. á|Naturally my parents guessed all about it. They rebuked me for á|what I had done."
joy	emotional_events	When I learned I was admitted to study what I wanted most - floriculture (this is a narrow specialization from the general one).
guilt	emotional_events	I had undertaken to help my sister for her class work but some unexpected circumstances prevented me from doing that.
joy	emotional_events	I was very glad when I learned I was a student already. I heard about it over the phone, I didn't believe it at first.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt it when I came home after the examination session and I said I had not passed my last exam.
joy	emotional_events	I felt glad when I took the rather difficult organic chemistry examination.
guilt	emotional_events	The sense of guilt came over me too, when I interrupted my studies. Why ? Because I felt guilty before my parents ! They believed in me though this event did not make them disbelieve me.
joy	emotional_events	I sensed a strong feeling of joy when in the plant, at my working place, I got a message that I was admitted as full time student at the Higher Agricultural Institute.
guilt	emotional_events	A sense of guilt before my parents when I had to discountinue my studies in the first year because of unpassed exams.
joy	emotional_events	After a difficult exam. When I had not hoped to take it and had got a high mark. When you present someone with something and he feels glad.
guilt	emotional_events	I didn't visit a very close friend at the hospital and some days later he died.
joy	emotional_events	I was sitting for an exam in biochemistry, I was very excited because it was a supplementary examination. I passed the exam very well and was glad because I recovered my selfconfidence.
guilt	emotional_events	I remember about an unpleasant event in relation to my mother. I felt guilty before her.
joy	emotional_events	When I succeded in establishing a contact with a girl (who is now my girlfriend).
guilt	emotional_events	When once my mother asked me to do some work for her at home because she was busy and moreover this work was to be done by a man. But it remained undone.
joy	emotional_events	I feel joy usually after each taken exam, the last one was in February.
guilt	emotional_events	Last year I put off an exam for the autumn session without knowing if there was a supplementary examination session. When I came home with my exam unpassed I felt guilty before my parents when I remembered how much they had done for me.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the Higher Institute.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I had taken the car keys and I had an accident but as my parents did not know who was to blame, they punished my brother because I had no driving licence and they thought it impossible that had driven the car.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I was admitted to the Higher Agricultural Institute.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I failed to take an exam though I had had enough time to read for it but I hadn't made use of it.
joy	emotional_events	I was for the first time on a brigade this year. At that time my sister was to bear a child. I was mad with joy when I opened the telegram from my parents and learned I had a nephew.
guilt	emotional_events	I feel always guilty before my parents when I come home and have to tell them I have failed an exam.
joy	emotional_events	Naturally when I got myself discharged this was my second birthday.
guilt	emotional_events	Something very unpleasant happened when I was a soldier and I was directly involved in it.
joy	emotional_events	I felt the greatest burst of joy when after being heavily ill for a long period, my father came back home.
guilt	emotional_events	I remember when I was a little boy I broke a Swiss dinner set quite involuntarily.
joy	emotional_events	When I got a message that I was employed as a nurse at a kindergarten.
guilt	emotional_events	When at times unconscienciously I speak to my mother in a high tome but after that I am sorry and I feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	Being invited out by a person I wished to get closer to. He telephoned and invited me to go out with him the next night.
guilt	emotional_events	Guilt at often being unable to visit a close relative in hospital after her death I felt very guilty and wished I had done more.
joy	emotional_events	Achievement of a task by a friend who had begun a new job. She wasn't confident of handling the situation so was thinking  of leaving the job only after 2 days employment.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had lied to a friend/son about some things we had discussed and I had to be one better.
joy	emotional_events	Felt joy a few years ago when I was away on holiday. And sat very close to my best friend looking straight into the eyes.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty at being part of the successful people. Felt guilty at being a student when other people were not. Guilt about being a potential success in various areas of society. (So stupid this emotion)
joy	emotional_events	When I meet old past pupils of mine - and find they are all doing well - I feel joy. Yesterday I met a young woman (20 yrs) I'd taught her at 6 yrs, then at 12 yrs and hadn't seen her for last 3-4 yrs; she was no longer a waitress but a meter maid for Council.
guilt	emotional_events	Not attending school, when  am not sick - but in need of mental rest. Staff on your return query your \sickness\" - it is easier á|in N.Z. to be sick, rather than confide other personal reasons á|etc."
joy	emotional_events	My 3 children - each top his class in the final exams 1984.
guilt	emotional_events	When I accepted a lunch invitation from a past male friend.
joy	emotional_events	When my daughter was born.
guilt	emotional_events	When I made an excuse to get out of participating in an important family occasion that I should not have missed.
joy	emotional_events	Being reunited with my family after not having seen them for 5 years, at the airport. Sheer elation at getting through the \paper work\" collecting bags and the anticipation of coming á|through the customs gate."
guilt	emotional_events	This feeling of guilt really applies to moral/religious views. I (being Catholic) went against what I was brought up to believe in and had a sexual relationship with my boyfriend. Many months later, when I was doing some deeper self analysis I began to feel guilty and realized that I had gone against what I wanted for myself and my future.
joy	emotional_events	My mother along with some of my friends gave me a surprise birthday party - they invited a large number of my friends along too.
guilt	emotional_events	I did not attend a social studies observation class for 1 whole week (I am a student trainee teacher). Anyway the other teachers thought this was okay because the teacher I was supposed to observe was not well liked. The teacher was in fact really nice to me - but I wanted to get out of teaching a hard topic he had given me.
joy	emotional_events	Passing my pharmacy exams which meant my tertiary education for pharmacy completed.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had to go to reconciliation before converting to Catholicism but then once received - o.k.
joy	emotional_events	Joy for me is when all my family gather around home for special occasions as Christmas etc. It really gives me joy to see my family and relatives and to observe natures productivity process which have been going on for centuries.
guilt	emotional_events	This I experienced when going around with more than one girl.
joy	emotional_events	Letting Jesus take control of my emotions i.e., ill feeling.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had to lie about my age to be accepted as a member of a group.
joy	emotional_events	My cousin asked me to be a bridesmaid for her. This made really happy because I was adopted into the family and her asking me made me realise that she saw me as a cousin and not just another person. There were other cousins she could have asked but she asked me.
guilt	emotional_events	I lied to my mother in the sixth form she said she would ring to find out and I had to tell her I had lied.
joy	emotional_events	Joy at meeting a woman I love very much.
guilt	emotional_events	When I masturbated in my room.
joy	emotional_events	When my lover and I felt like we had gone full circle. And our relationship was new, fresh, vital etc. once again.
guilt	emotional_events	When I betrayed my lover, she told me something in confidence, I felt at the time I had to relay the information back to the person concerned, as I felt the situation volitile, did this without telling my lover, she felt like piggy in the middle, as she was not directly concerned. Maybe you could call it gossip I felt different after I had slept on it. If I had waited, thought, NOW I would not have done it.
joy	emotional_events	A good friend, the wife of the vicar of my church came up to me from the pews (I am in the choir) and shook my hand during the time for an informal \greeting\" in the church service. She said a á|few words."
guilt	emotional_events	I felt that I contributed to a possible rift in the relationship between a boy and girl soon to be married, in my flat after I moved in. After stating my celibacy to him which she overheard and didn't previously know about I suspect.
joy	emotional_events	My friend replying to my letter and again saying he was attracted to me and suggesting we write, talk and get together and see how things went and his suggestion that I could ring and doing that it was really good - though really insane conversation.
guilt	emotional_events	While intoxicated I damaged my sister's car in a minor way and someone elses in a minor way.
joy	emotional_events	Girlfriend arriving back from overseas and picking her up from airport. When she finally appeared from customs and we came in contact again.
guilt	emotional_events	Had started a relationship and did nothing to keep it up, partly the use of another person.
joy	emotional_events	The feeling of joy when again I had confessed my sin and experienced God's forgiving grace and cleansing power - total enlightenment and freedome - bliss.
guilt	emotional_events	Making a sexual pass at my cousin with whom I have a very close personal relationship.
joy	emotional_events	First time I slept with my present girlfriend. Had been best friends for a year but had been hesitant about getting involved emotionally.
guilt	emotional_events	Slept with someone close to my girlfriend and myself.
joy	emotional_events	Hearing that I had been successful in getting a position whereby my financial, physical, spiritual and emotional needs will be well catered for. This position fulfils a lot of my aims for the last five years of my life.
guilt	emotional_events	When I deliberately engineered a situation to cause tension between friends so as to bolster the impression one of them had of me !
joy	emotional_events	Hearing Fran Wilde introduce the Bill.
guilt	emotional_events	Adolescent guilt growing up feeling \bad, immoral\" sexual á|desires, some 10yrs ago."
joy	emotional_events	Won a prize for effort.
guilt	emotional_events	I was late meeting someone for an appointment.
joy	emotional_events	I was feeling really low - had been a series of fights with my siblings, been under pressure at school and wasn't going to the party I wanted to go - instead I was going out with my family. A guy called and said, in effect, that I was \nice\" and he liked á|me. Hence the emotional joy."
guilt	emotional_events	I was using my sister's stereo while everyone was out. I know she wouldn't want me to and I would get into trouble if she found out. But she was only partly justified in forbidding me to use it. She never found out.
joy	emotional_events	Winning a rowing race at a Karapiro regatta. With 7 other friends.
guilt	emotional_events	Guilty when I hadn't walked my dog for quite a few days and had given her no attention.
joy	emotional_events	When I won a position on the track-team for the trans-tasman games when I was eleven.
guilt	emotional_events	When something went wrong for me I lashed out at someone else whom I loved and who was not in any way responsible for what had happened (my sister).
joy	emotional_events	Easter holiday - I had been working weekends and had just left.
guilt	emotional_events	I borrowed a friend's books and forgot I had them, she asked for them back and I told her I didn't have them. I duly found and returned them.
joy	emotional_events	Getting my kitten, found at work several years ago, taking him home in a box on my motorbike, showing it to my defacto.
guilt	emotional_events	Forgot to turn up on prescribed day for jury service.
joy	emotional_events	When I was finally able to return to a job that I enjoyed doing after several months absence (I was not needed during this time).
guilt	emotional_events	When I made a mistake at work and when questioned about it pretended I had nothing to do with the problem.
joy	emotional_events	At my wedding - standing with the man I love and acknowledging that fact to members of family and friends.
guilt	emotional_events	Breaking the left hand indicator box by moving too close to structure.
joy	emotional_events	Waking in morning (early morning) and having whole day to myself.
guilt	emotional_events	Boyfriend doing cleaning in situation where it was my job to do it. Later snapped at him over trivial thing. He looked downcast. I felt guilty - \he's just done all that work for me\"."
joy	emotional_events	When my first niece was born.
guilt	emotional_events	Two timing - going out with 2 guys at once (secretly).
joy	emotional_events	When I went to the pub with a large group of friends, we drank and danced.
guilt	emotional_events	I spent all weekend with a friend instead of studying for my exams.
joy	emotional_events	Birth of children.
guilt	emotional_events	Telling white lies.
joy	emotional_events	Thought had discovered true love.
guilt	emotional_events	When caught shop-lifting as for shame.
joy	emotional_events	Receiving understanding from within self of a subject I had previously wished to understand better.
guilt	emotional_events	Telling a lie to wife over phone about what I had been working at.
joy	emotional_events	Meeting best friend at the airport (boyfriend) who I had missed terribly.
guilt	emotional_events	Two-timing - going out with person other than guy I was in relationship with.
joy	emotional_events	I was very pleased and happy when my older sister came home from living somewhere out of town and I hadn't seen her for months. We are very close sisters.
guilt	emotional_events	Someone asked me to do something and I made up an excuse and said no. I then went and didn't the same thing with someone else and hoped the first person never found out.
joy	emotional_events	When my brother who has been out of New Zealand for 10 years came to visit with his wife which none of our family had previously met.
guilt	emotional_events	The first time I went away with my boyfriend and lied about where we were staying.
joy	emotional_events	When my former boyfriend and I reconciled and he decided that I was very important to him. I had always wanted us to get back together again, but had doubted the likelihood of this, so I was very happy when my small amount of faith was vindicated.
guilt	emotional_events	When my sister had the opportunity to do some modelling work. And I was quite jealous - later on the photographer decided not to take her photograph, and she was very upset - I felt guilty as a result, almost as if I had caused her to lose her opportunity, by not being genuinely happy for her in the first place.
joy	emotional_events	I did a solo flight from Ardmore to Kaikohe before I got my pilot licence. I can remember it was gorgeous day and I was on a natural high, cruising up the coast with my maps and compasses and gear. Other pilots had seen me off and wished me good luck and it was a real adventure.
guilt	emotional_events	NO RESPONSE.
joy	emotional_events	A holiday at a whitesand deserted beach. A cool evening near the end of summer and we had a fire in the sand - toasted marshmellows, cuddled and drank champagne.
guilt	emotional_events	I told my pesent boyfriend that I was an Australian as are my parents. As the relationship developed I found it harder and harder to confess and became sure it would end our relationship. He eventually found out when told in front of me by my mother.
joy	emotional_events	Winning a race that I had been training for, for many weeks. (Running Race).
guilt	emotional_events	When I crashed by bike into an old lady crossing a road and knocked her down.
joy	emotional_events	Listening to the opening bars of Tchaikovsdy's symphony No.2 fourth movement at my sister's wedding.
guilt	emotional_events	At the age of 12 (or so) I stole from a Ranger's fruit tree an apple. (And eventually was compelled to confess - Dostoersky would like this).
joy	emotional_events	Seeing my sister after about 2 years of not seeing her. Only spent 1 hour or so before she was off overseas with her husband for 3 months.
guilt	emotional_events	Stealing money from a milk token jar from a close friend of the family when visiting.
joy	emotional_events	Talking with someone I admire a lot.
guilt	emotional_events	Beating my brother up.
joy	emotional_events	I was \best man\" at my brother's wedding a year ago."
guilt	emotional_events	My grandmother wanted me to help her. I was driving a tractor pulling a dead branch off a tree. I told her she didn't respect me.
joy	emotional_events	Hearing my girlfriend accept my offer of marriage.
guilt	emotional_events	Describing to mother how a hole in the wall had appeared while I was babysitting.
joy	emotional_events	When I found out I had passed all of my university exams.
guilt	emotional_events	Missing lectures and avoiding university work for no reason when it had to be done.
joy	emotional_events	When I received my U.E. accredited as I was totally unexpecting it and I was so happy.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had to lie to my boyfriend so that he wouldn't suspect I'd bought him a xmas present as expensive as I had.
joy	emotional_events	I received an assignment back, and got an A+ grading.
guilt	emotional_events	I took my father's car to church one Sunday (I told them that's where I was going ) I decided instead to go for a drive to the beach - on the way I got a puncture.
joy	emotional_events	Getting University Entrance accredited and arriving home from boarding school on accrediting leave.
guilt	emotional_events	I let my pet budgie loose to fly around my room one afternoon. A few hours afterwards I found he was still free, went in and out of my room leaving the door open. My cat got in and killed my budgie - this happened to 3 budgies.
joy	emotional_events	The birth of my first child.
guilt	emotional_events	When my husband discovered I was having an affair with another man.
joy	emotional_events	I was biking with my boyfriend, the sun shining after a long period of bad beather, afterwards we spent the evening and night together.
guilt	emotional_events	In a playground I was playing at the seesaw with a little niece. I wanted to stop but nobody came to help me. When I got off, all alone the seesaw fell down with a big smash. My niece got hurt above her eye. Now there is a scar.
joy	emotional_events	When passing the final examinations for social worker.
guilt	emotional_events	I had made an appointment with a girl to go to the movies, but actually I had no mind when we arrived at the cinema, it was a full house. I then went back and she went to the movie alone.
joy	emotional_events	A friend came to tell me that her father invited me to go on holiday with them in Benidorm otherwise I could not afford to go on holiday.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother wants to talk very often about her life. I dislike this because she always talks negatively about the same people whatever I do it doesn't help.
joy	emotional_events	At the moment when I heard the result of an examination and it proved that I succeeded the second year of my study.
guilt	emotional_events	I moved to Nijmegen for my study. Soon after this my mother had to be admitted in hospital because of cardiac compliants. I knew that my moving was an important reason for this.
joy	emotional_events	I can't give one description here. I often feel joyful when I have done things good in relation to other people especially when my friend says he loves me and I also tell him that I love him.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I once went out with another boy and made love with him while I had a close boyfriend.
joy	emotional_events	When my boyfriend came back after being away for 10 days.
guilt	emotional_events	That I didn't want my friend to leave on holiday for 10 days because I thought I would miss him. I was constantly trying to persuade him.
joy	emotional_events	When I was making music together with my friend. It sounded very good and we were very satisfied.
guilt	emotional_events	I had a girlfriend which I used to call regularly. Then I didn't phone her for a while. At a certain moment I felt a little tension which became worse.
joy	emotional_events	At an important moment in a volleyball game we made a point and by this we won a set from a much stronger competitor.
guilt	emotional_events	When I took a car which was not mine, and suddenly it stopped working.
joy	emotional_events	When the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the final of the Europe Cup at Athens.
joy	emotional_events	The day I finished my military service.
guilt	emotional_events	I ran over my dog with a bicycle when I was carrying him tied to the handle bar.
joy	emotional_events	When I won the first prize in a cross country race.
guilt	emotional_events	I thought that I could have avoided the above situation (the one in fear) if I had concentrated more on my work, which I hate.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the last exam, which I had doudts about.
guilt	emotional_events	When I finished a test type of exam and did not dare to answer any question, I doubted whether I would pass the exam  or not.
joy	emotional_events	When I was back home after a long time, meeting beloved people and close friends.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother always took my side. That brought about quarrels with my father. I knew she didn't like that and I felt very sorry for that.
joy	emotional_events	When on holiday in Greece I called my best friend, she told me she passed the examinations and that she had been admitted to the study for speech therapy.
guilt	emotional_events	I was out with a friend in a place where it was very, very busy. When we wanted to go I bumped a person, who dropped his glass beer I offered a new one but he didn't accept it.
joy	emotional_events	It appeared that I gave correct answers to all questions during an examination of personality while I thought I performed very badly. Even now, I don't know how I managed it.
guilt	emotional_events	When I flew out to my mother and made rude remarks because I felt so tense (studied too hard for an examination).
joy	emotional_events	Unofficially I was informed about my results of the final examination of the secondary school. A teacher wrote them up for me. When I went outside, I started crying with joy.
guilt	emotional_events	When my father (physically handicapped) asks me to do something and I raise several objections. Often I can fix it in few moments.
joy	emotional_events	When the parents of my girlfriend gave permission to spend our holiday together.
guilt	emotional_events	When I made love with a girl, which I don't really love. However I know that she loves me.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the driving test (on the second try).
guilt	emotional_events	My parents appreciate very much me and my boyfriend coming and have dinner with them at Christmas. However we decided to visit his parents. My mother was rather disappointed.
joy	emotional_events	When I started a relation with a girl, with whom I have fallen in love already some time ago.
guilt	emotional_events	I chatted up with a girl who I didn't love. She however was fallen in love with me. I felt responsible for her sorrow.
joy	emotional_events	I felt very happy when I heard I had passed the examination to move up to the second year course.
guilt	emotional_events	I spend the night with my boyfriend, while there was also a friend of his. We all lay on the floor to sleep. When my boyfriend was fallen asleep the other boy and I started petting. After 15 minutes I felt miserable and awoke my boyfriend to tell him that.
joy	emotional_events	I liked to see off my aunt (from Zaire) to the airport. That appeared to be impossible because I had to go to school. For long time I wasn't sure if I could accompany her. Two days before the departure they told me I was allowed to miss school.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was 4-5 years old my mother gave me some parts of a chocolate bar and ordered me to bring it to my father working outside. On my way I could not resist the temptation and ate it myself.
joy	emotional_events	When I had to undergo the final examination of secondary school, I lived together with a girlfriend. We both were afraid to fail, but it appeard that we both had passed.
guilt	emotional_events	Very often I take care for my little sister and oversee her duties. Most of the time everything went fine, but sometimes she absolutely didn't want to obey; then I hit her (we frequently were hit by our father).
joy	emotional_events	Passing my driver's examination (after two failures).
guilt	emotional_events	I wanted to finish a relationship after 3 months. Unfortunately my friend had a different opinion. I could not answer his feelings this made him unhappy, and me feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When a friend of mine had her period, while thinking she was pregnant.
guilt	emotional_events	When I realised that I had rejected a boy, who was fallen in love with me, rather bluntly four times.
joy	emotional_events	Spending the nitht with close friends, after being away (out of Nijmegen) for a while.
guilt	emotional_events	After a quarrel with my mother in which matters were \inflated\" á|enormously."
joy	emotional_events	A fellow player, quite unexpectedly, scores a goal, which means a draw.
guilt	emotional_events	My girlfriend and I agreed to go to the cinema. However I completely forgot our appointment. I remembered it two hours too late when I went to visit her.
joy	emotional_events	When my boyfriend once again told me that he loved me after a period in which he felt very depressive.
guilt	emotional_events	When I tell someone no. In other words when I refuse to do something although I could have helped him.
joy	emotional_events	When I got a good grade for an exam in statistics.
guilt	emotional_events	After a courtship of three months I made an end to it. The boy was very sad about this.
joy	emotional_events	I had a very pleasant conversation with one of my friends.
guilt	emotional_events	I once drank too much alcohol and became very ill. This was in the presence of my friends.
joy	emotional_events	This week I was phoned by an old friend with whom I lost contact a few years ago.
guilt	emotional_events	When I see that my mother forces my little brother (15 years) to work very hard for school. I don't agree that she constantly puts him to work, but I don't tell it to her, so nothing changes.
joy	emotional_events	I thought that someone was angry with me but, by hindsight, that didn't appear to be the case, he even liked me.
guilt	emotional_events	I told someone that I still had a relationship with a boy although it was finished already 3 months before. That person seriously discussed several things relating that issue. Then I felt very miserable because I had told lies.
joy	emotional_events	A meeting and a conversation with a woman (somewhat elder than me) who considers me as her child (she also has one child of her own). Last two years I lived with her (no relationship).
guilt	emotional_events	In Biarritz (the South of France) I met some English students who, especially for me, went to Paris and gave me food, while I didn't have any more money.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the driving test already on the first try, although I felt more and more uncertain as the day came near.
guilt	emotional_events	When my father told me that I should help my mother more often, because she was so busy. And I realized that he was right.
joy	emotional_events	Passing an examination, although I felt sure I had failed.
guilt	emotional_events	I borrowed a piece of music of someone and I always forgot to give it back. That person wrote me a letter asking me to give it back. I did so and I told him an idle story why I kept it for so long.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was caught with another man's wife.  I had taken the opportuinty as this man was abroad but he returned that night.
joy	emotional_events	The day I learnt that I had been admitted to the university.
guilt	emotional_events	I broke my friend's badminton racket and she kept quiet about it.
joy	emotional_events	\Boy, you have been admitted to the medicine school and your á|uncle is coming back fron Canada next week,\" my father told me á|and it was a happy moment."
guilt	emotional_events	I was in grade seven and my class was planning a protest against a rude and immoral teacher.  I sneaked out and told the headmaster about it and so the plan was foiled.
joy	emotional_events	I won the first prize at the science fair, the first of the kind at school and I was only in form II then.
guilt	emotional_events	I beat up a female friend after I heard the defamatory stories that she had been telling.  I was later called to explain my behaviour.
joy	emotional_events	My 21st birthday celebration, when I cut the cake and received the presents.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was made to feel responsible for the emotional state a friend of mine was in.
guilt	emotional_events	I have cut loose from my father a few years ago. I know he is very sad about this.
joy	emotional_events	A recurrent lovesickness.
guilt	emotional_events	When my friend needed my help very much and I, at that moment, made an end to our relationship.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed a very important exam.
guilt	emotional_events	Someone had to do a lot of efforts to make something work. With my help he would have finished much sooner, but I wasn't in the mood to help him.
joy	emotional_events	I went to visit friends and it was very companionable.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend of mine had a bicycle-accident because I pulled at his handlebar.
joy	emotional_events	Sitting alone in a quiet room concentrating on things happening around me which pleases me.
guilt	emotional_events	I saved up money for a good purpose. As I also have to organise a party I am afraid there will rest only a little money for the good purpose I feel guilty about this.
joy	emotional_events	My sister and brother in law returned from Sri Lanka where they adopted a child. I went to pick them up at the airport.
guilt	emotional_events	When I talked to another student about the notes she got last semester, not knowing that she got a lot of bad grades.
joy	emotional_events	When I got my drivers licence.
disgust	emotional_events	The stories about my aunt who was beaten and humiliated by my uncle.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had a little accident with my boss'car.
joy	emotional_events	Every year during carnival I am very joyful I have an intense feeling of happiness then.
disgust	emotional_events	There is a person whom I disgust. Evrey time I see her I get this terrible feeling I disgust her whole appearance.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother always evokes feelings of guilt in me. For instance when I miss the last bus I know she will be concerned for me and stay awake till I arrive.
joy	emotional_events	When I came again in contact with a girl I liked very much. And most important she also liked me.
disgust	emotional_events	A story I heard recently about a baby dying after sexual abuse.
guilt	emotional_events	When I didn't bring my girlfriend home one night. Later she told me that a cardriver solicited her.
joy	emotional_events	When an old schoolfriend phoned me to arrange an appointment to talk about old memories. I hadn't seen him for 8 years.
disgust	emotional_events	When my parents behave very \witty\" towards me, they make insipid á|jokes about which they laugh. Or my mother who treats me like a á|little child."
guilt	emotional_events	Flirting with other girls while I already had a very good relationship. When there are problems in my relationship, the flirting increases as does the feeling of guilt.
joy	emotional_events	Occurs frequently. A recent experience: when going out with many friends, nice music, after the examinations, I felt so happy I could have embraced everybody.
disgust	emotional_events	Every time I meet a certain person. We cannot get on well together, we dislike each other.
guilt	emotional_events	Being catched when stealing.
joy	emotional_events	I fell over head and ears in love with someone who appeared to be in love with me. it made me so happy that I could hardly sleep and eat for one week.
disgust	emotional_events	A friend had a quarrel with the mother of her boyfriend because she and her friend decided to go and live together. She needed money for removal, then she made a great effort to reconcile.
guilt	emotional_events	I was of the opinion that 12.00 pm was too early to be back at home after going out, so I stayed away longer, knowing that my mother would be worried.
joy	emotional_events	I was called and invited to have a talk about a job I wanted to have.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a terrible accident in which the driver of a motor was thrown through the frontwindow of a car. His face was completely away.
guilt	emotional_events	Against the will and without the approval of my parents I went for a few days to my boyfriend in Germany.
joy	emotional_events	When a friend of me came for an unexpected visit.
disgust	emotional_events	A teacher was very blunt in his relation to a child so that the child was very upset when arriving at home.
guilt	emotional_events	That I didn't take the time to make an appointment with someone.
joy	emotional_events	After I saw my family and good friends back after staying one year in a foreign country.
disgust	emotional_events	When an uncle of mine who is very ill started to cough wich sounded very dirty. (He can't help it of course).
guilt	emotional_events	A good friend of mine who is at the moment in a foreign country. I didn't write her for several months and now I feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When I go out with my friend with enough money and good sense to our favorite dancing.
disgust	emotional_events	My father is someone I disgust. So when he comes close to me a feeling of disgust overwhelms me. When I stay a week-end at my parent's place I will remember it for long time.
guilt	emotional_events	When I got associated with a boy one year ago, I neglected my best friend. When the relation with this boy finished she behaved very easy-going towards me. I felt guilty then.
joy	emotional_events	When I made the winning goal during a very important football game.
disgust	emotional_events	I was looking at a one-man show on television. He told very disgusting things so that I started to be disgusted with it. (Later on it proved that this was his intention).
guilt	emotional_events	When I don't go to my parents on Sunday and phone them to tell them that I have to study. The truth is that I listened to sports on the radio.
joy	emotional_events	When it appeared that I was not pregnant when I was several weeks overtime.
disgust	emotional_events	After the accident which I described in SHAME. I came to myself and saw how terrible everything looked like. I disgusted myself and everything I saw.
disgust	emotional_events	I heard part of a conversation in which one talked very low about women.
guilt	emotional_events	When I took the car of someone without saying it to him.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I heard that I was accepted for the Free University in Driebergen.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgust after watching a picture on television about torturing political prisoners in India (this happened in the India of Indira Ghandi).
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilt towards my mother when I went to live on rooms in Nijmegen where I study.
joy	emotional_events	When my boyfriend and I went out for a dinner and subsequently went to his family. We had a very nice evening.
disgust	emotional_events	I feel disgust when hearing or seeing other people being treated inhumanely. For example torturing in chili.
guilt	emotional_events	When I became angry at my boyfriend without any reason. I know he cannot bear me being angry at him and that he can't study anymore then.
joy	emotional_events	The day I heard that I passed the high school exam.
disgust	emotional_events	A girl who also hires a room in the house where I live always tries to make a quarrel with everyone available she disgusts me.
guilt	emotional_events	I knew I had to take an exam very soon but yet I couldn't start studying. I also knew it was very imprtant to succeed the exam this time.
joy	emotional_events	When Christmas holiday started, I felt very joyful when I finished my last exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When I ate a rotten apple.
guilt	emotional_events	When I have to take exams I am very excited and have not much time for the housekeeping. Then my friend has to do everything.
joy	emotional_events	My boyfriend was playing with my cat. He was playing games with her and telling nice things to her.
disgust	emotional_events	I read a story in the newspaper about butchers treating their animals very badly. They disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	A few weeks ago I thought about an exam I had to take soon. I remembered this just before I had to go to sleep. I felt guilt because at the beginning of the year I planned to succeed.
joy	emotional_events	During my high school time I succeeded to play a concert of Mozart on the piano when I gave my first performance I succeeded to play it very well.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a dog who was eating excrements.
guilt	emotional_events	During a holiday in East-Germany I got aquainted with a boy who lived there. We started writing, but I only wrote once. I felt ashamed because I probably was one of his sparse contacts with western Europe.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw a good friend again after not having seen her for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	Seeing a pornographic movie in which animals were used.
guilt	emotional_events	I was caught sneaking sweets.
joy	emotional_events	When I went to visit a friend in the hospital. She had to undergo an operation for rupture. I was glad to hear that the operation succeeded and that she was relieved of her pain.
disgust	emotional_events	I was hitch-hiking when a man stopped and gave me a lift to Nijmegen. During the ride he asked me whether I was in for fun. The man was fat and tatooed.
guilt	emotional_events	I became very angry with my friend because he didn't do shopping, while we agreed on him doing this. My being angry was proved to be without reason and I felt guilty about it.
joy	emotional_events	When I got the positive result of my examination to achieve the Bachelor Degree in Plychology.
disgust	emotional_events	When once again I drank too much and felt very rotten the morning after.
guilt	emotional_events	When having a relationship, I made love with another girl.
joy	emotional_events	When the girl with whom I am in love smiles at me.
disgust	emotional_events	When I had to finish those big amounts of homework in time.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had broken a piece of glass of the refrigerator by putting a hot pan in it.
joy	emotional_events	On my birthday when several good friends came to visit me.
disgust	emotional_events	A scene in a film in which one man repressed another one. By concidence, their position was reversed. The other man was repressed in an identical way as he did before.
guilt	emotional_events	After the death of a girl who I disliked.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joyful when my boyfriend met me at the station, while at first he had said that he would not do that.
disgust	emotional_events	One night I saw a man being knocked down by two other men. The victim was kicked against his head.
guilt	emotional_events	When I cancelled an appointment with an idle story. Afterwards it appeared that the person had looked forward to it and reserved time for it.
joy	emotional_events	For a few days I felt very miserable, distressed and listless, with crying fits. When this was over I felt very happy, although there was no special reason.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone told me a story of Amnesty International: a boy was killed and his head was put in the litter of his girlfriend. It looked as if she was pregnant, then she died. It is disgusting, I can hardly write it down.
guilt	emotional_events	Yesterday my boyfriend and I wanted to play billiards. However there were boys playing (5 times). My boyfriend then is fed up and chagrined. In such case I think it is my fault.
joy	emotional_events	When my boyfriend and I experience something nice or when we have made a nice walk together.
disgust	emotional_events	When people are eating unsavoury (smacking, belching, speaking with food in their mouth, etc.).
guilt	emotional_events	I made an appointment to pick up someone. However I arrived too late and she had to wait a quarter of an hour.
joy	emotional_events	One night I had a very good conversation with two friends. I then realized how worthy they were for me and how happy I was to have them as friends.
disgust	emotional_events	When I made love with someone who I didn't really love. Sometimes I even considered him unlikable.
guilt	emotional_events	When I realized that I avoided two good friends with whom I always shared toys and sorrows. I made up idle stories to avoid telling them what happened to me.
joy	emotional_events	My boyfriend suffered form ill health for some months, this week the physician told him that he was restored to health.
disgust	emotional_events	I read a newspaper report that a little boy was forced to look while his sister was raped.
guilt	emotional_events	I call my mother at least once a week. However last week I completely forgot. This morning she called me, she thought I felt ill.
joy	emotional_events	After the funeral of an acquaintance I felt very depressed. That feeling turned into joy when I heard that I had achieved a good grade for an examination.
disgust	emotional_events	I cannot remember exactly such a situation. But I know that once I went to a very dirty lavatory and that disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	I once torn the inner tube of a bike, that was not mine. Then I saw it was a brand new one. I felt very guilty then.
joy	emotional_events	When I found out that the girl, with whom I was in love, loved me too.
disgust	emotional_events	My mother was very angry with my little sister and told her to put her hands on the table in order to beat her hands up. She forced by means of her power.
guilt	emotional_events	Once after falling in love, I imagined that particular girl to be perfect and completely overshadowing my girlfriend. Afterwards I realized that this image was not objective. I felt guilty against both girls.
joy	emotional_events	Once a week I work as a volunteer in a biologic garden. this work in the garden and the contact with other volunteers filled me with joy. They also gave me support after I failed passing my driver's test.
joy	emotional_events	When someone made me a compliment after an examination just at the moment I needed it. It was amicable, hearty and sincere.
disgust	emotional_events	When I see that some people remain cold and egoistic with regard to close friends, even in situations that those friends need them.
guilt	emotional_events	A certain friend evokes positive feelings, when I am with him but negative feelings when he is not present. I feel the need to express those negative feelings. However, when I speak about him, I always think: Why do I like this, he does not deserve this, but still I do so.
joy	emotional_events	A few days ago, I hitch-hiked to Arnhems with a friend. Everything went well: they picked us up very quickly, the sun was shining, I was feeling free and, for the first time after long time, happy. I really had the feeling that I was living at full speed.
disgust	emotional_events	A few days after I had finished the relationship with my boyfriend, we had a quarrel. Then he hit me. At that moment I found him disgusting.
guilt	emotional_events	I know that a certain person feels very lonely, and that she always looks forward to seeing me. However, often I am too busy to visit her, then I feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	A close relative of mine underwent a difficult operation, and everything turned out fine.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw someone eating live worms.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I can not remember anything in particular.  What I can remember is feelings of having done or said something which then had negative consequences.]
joy	emotional_events	When they told me that I had got a study grant.
guilt	emotional_events	Because I had not studied.
joy	emotional_events	When my father was saved from a severe work accident.
disgust	emotional_events	When I see rotten meat.
guilt	emotional_events	When I failed an exam I thought I could pass easily.
joy	emotional_events	When I got to know that I had passed the university entrance exam.  I thought that I had done one of the exams badly.
disgust	emotional_events	I had a class-mate who was rather stupid.  I did not like him but I respected him.  When he tried to talk to someone, they would not listen to him and I could not bear seeing this.
guilt	emotional_events	I went to a pub with a group of friends (not very close) and I was with one girl most of the time, while the other girls in the group wanted to be with me.  They stopped talking to the girl I was with.
joy	emotional_events	The day some friends of mine and I decided to go to Galicia on holiday.
disgust	emotional_events	When I am dirty because I have not had a shower for a few days.
guilt	emotional_events	After an argument with a friend of mine.
joy	emotional_events	A friend of mine told me that I had passed the entrance exam to the university.
disgust	emotional_events	I had to change a baby's clothes for the first time.
guilt	emotional_events	My younger sister was almost run over by a lorry.
joy	emotional_events	When my brother was born.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a scene on T.V where a castration was shown.
guilt	emotional_events	When my brother ran away from home and I thought it was because of my continously scolding him.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw that I had passed the university entrance exam.  It made me forget all my problems.
disgust	emotional_events	When a very dirty class-mate farted in my  presence.  There was a terrible smell.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had an argument with my grandfather the day my younger brother was born.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw my 16 year old sister at home after having waited for her all night, not knowing where she was.
disgust	emotional_events	On seeing a scene of an accident in a magazine.
guilt	emotional_events	When I shouted at my mother when she was nervous and depressed.
joy	emotional_events	After several days delay in my girlfriend's menstration I was very glad to see that the pregnancy test was negative.
disgust	emotional_events	Whenever I see an alcoholic.
guilt	emotional_events	When I failed an exam for which I knew that I had not studied hard enough.
joy	emotional_events	The day the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the final at Athens.
disgust	emotional_events	When I got to know the details if the famine in East Africa.
guilt	emotional_events	During an argument with my brother, I behaved rather intransigently, even cruelly, wishing to morally hurt the \person\" á|opposed to me."
joy	emotional_events	When I passed an important exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was a child, one day while playing, I fell up to my waist in mud.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was with a girl who seemed to love me, while I was with her just to go to bed with her.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed an exam which I had failed last year.
disgust	emotional_events	When I see people who have no sentiments.
guilt	emotional_events	When I triffled with other people.
joy	emotional_events	When I was told that I could take a week off and go for a trip with my friends.
disgust	emotional_events	A young man was insulting and humiliating a drunken man.
guilt	emotional_events	I was with a girl one night and then did not call her again, although she had asked me to do so.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw that I had passed an exam.  It was the last chance and there was a lot at stake.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a film where a black was rapeing a girl while another one was filming it for a pornographic movie.
guilt	emotional_events	I was looking after a child and she fell down because I was not paying her much attention.  One side of her face got bruised.
joy	emotional_events	When I pass exams, or when a close friend of mine recovered from an illness,etc.
disgust	emotional_events	Some people whom I do not like at all, and one of the reasons is their physical appearance.
guilt	emotional_events	Some of my friends had an argument.  I had earlier phoned one of them and that may have influenced him to argue.
joy	emotional_events	When I met a very close friend of mine after one year of separation.
disgust	emotional_events	Pictures of Nazi extermination camps on a T.V program.
guilt	emotional_events	I left a boy with whom I was going around without giving him any explanations.
joy	emotional_events	When my sister was born.
disgust	emotional_events	When I see dead dogs on the road.
guilt	emotional_events	When my parents quarelled over something I had done and which was wrong.
joy	emotional_events	When my little sister was born.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a very disagreable scene.
guilt	emotional_events	When I inadvertantly made some close friends and relatives feel bad.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed an exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw an accident where the man lost his head.
guilt	emotional_events	When I hurt a person's feelings.
joy	emotional_events	I had not seen my brother for five years as he was not in Spain.   When he arrived at the airport, I felt great joy.
disgust	emotional_events	When a person saw that I was accused of something I had not done and did not do anything to defend me.
guilt	emotional_events	When I broke something and a friend of mine was blamed.
joy	emotional_events	I got my driving licence after they had frightened me with it's difficulty.
disgust	emotional_events	When I had to dissect a live mouse at school.
guilt	emotional_events	When I saw a program on Ethiopia on T.V, a fews hours earlier I had thrown away some clothes and food.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw that the mark I had obtained in an exam was a good one.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw several people washing their car with water from a drain.
guilt	emotional_events	I was entrusted with an object and while using it I handled it carelessly and it broke.
joy	emotional_events	When I learned, after the ecography, that my mother was expecting a baby girl.  That was what I wanted.
disgust	emotional_events	One day I was going through the street door of my house, when a man asked me for a doctor.  He then showed me his genitals and asked me to cure him myself.
guilt	emotional_events	I had an argument with my boyfriend.  It was my fault but my pride would not let me admit it.
joy	emotional_events	An invitation to spend 5 days at the seaside with all expenses paid.
disgust	emotional_events	When after a storm in the country, I left my shelter and saw a big, fat, slimy green toad by my side.
guilt	emotional_events	When my brother had to spend all evening repairing a gear-lever that I had broken.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the university entrance exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When I see pornographic films.
guilt	emotional_events	When a friend of mine was beaten for what was my fault.
joy	emotional_events	My father had an operation which lasted for hours.  We were all very worried but it was successful.
disgust	emotional_events	On the road there was a dead animal with its entrails showing and its skull crushed.
guilt	emotional_events	I could have passed the last exam of the public competition, but I failed as I had not studied.
joy	emotional_events	I was studying in the library and a class-mate told me that she had obtained a grant to work in the library.
disgust	emotional_events	I was in the cafeteria at the university and a class-mate told me that a friend of hers had had all her teeth taken out because of an infection caused by her eating a rat's nail in her hamburger.
guilt	emotional_events	One night, after having decided to finish our relationship, I took my girlfriend home.  While driving back home, I felt that I had not handled the whole thing very well.
joy	emotional_events	The begining of my relations with my current girlfriend.
disgust	emotional_events	The sight of vomit on the street.
guilt	emotional_events	Not to have studied enough when exams were near.
joy	emotional_events	When I pass an exam.
disgust	emotional_events	To loose friends because of them over-estimating themselves.
guilt	emotional_events	To force someone to do something that suits me.
joy	emotional_events	I thought that I was going to fail a subject and so I began to study for the final exam, then my friend told me that I had passed it.  That meant that I could go home, as I do not study in my hometown.
disgust	emotional_events	The man who threw me out of the flat disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	I was going around with a girl without loving her.  Not only did I go around with her, but we did many more things.  In the end I was not very sincere to her.
joy	emotional_events	I met a girlfriend again after not seeing her for several months.  I saw her in a discotheque.  We do not like discotheques but we went there because we knew we would meet there.
disgust	emotional_events	I read a book whose plot and expressions were obscene and in very bad taste.
guilt	emotional_events	It was about midnight and I wanted to go to the countryside (I was in town) to watch the stars in the sky.  My mother did not like this, in spite of it I went out for a while.  My mother got angry.
joy	emotional_events	A friend of mine suggested that I become a film extra.  The idea seemed very funny to me and my reaction seemed rather outlandish to the others.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw in an ice-cream kiosque a cockroach walking through a cornet.
guilt	emotional_events	Once I had some homework to do and I did not do it.
joy	emotional_events	When they phoned me from Great-Britain to tell me that I could go there, if I wished, in Summer.
disgust	emotional_events	A TV program on whale-hunting.
guilt	emotional_events	Family discord and uneasiness due to something I did not communicate on time.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed my driving test, as it was the fifth time that I had taken this test.
disgust	emotional_events	Some friends and I were having lunch.  Someone said something funny and one of the guys started laughing and spat his food in a girl's face.
guilt	emotional_events	As I was not paying attention, my little brother fell off the table.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the university entrance exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When I see someone vomitting.
guilt	emotional_events	I had to undergo an operation in Summer and so my family had to stay at home during the holidays.  I felt guilty, above all because of my brothers.
joy	emotional_events	I came across a friend with whom I had lost touch for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	During lunch with some classmates, a priest was also there.  He was eating desperately as if someone was going to take his plate away.  He did it with gluttony.  He wiped his hands on his suit several times and it was full of crumbs.
guilt	emotional_events	One day, I was alone on duty when a patient choked while eating.  I ran to her and tried to make her breath, but it was too late.
joy	emotional_events	At a party, on New Year's Eve, I met on old friend whom I had not seen for some time
disgust	emotional_events	They asked me to throw the rubbish into a dustbin which had some awful liquid accumulated at the bottom.
guilt	emotional_events	I was driving a friend's car, and I got close to the pavement to ask my way and I struck a parked car.
joy	emotional_events	Every time, in the last few days, when my girlfriend told me that she loves me.
disgust	emotional_events	Once I had to clean a lavatory which was obstructed.  It was in a friend's country house and there was nobody there to help me.
guilt	emotional_events	When I lost my study grant without having attended any exam in the career I had started, and it was too late to cancel my registration.
joy	emotional_events	A party I went to last Christmas.
disgust	emotional_events	One day I went to see a rather disagreeable film (X).
guilt	emotional_events	Once, I accidentally injured a boy in the eye and he almost lost it.
joy	emotional_events	When I knew the feelings of a beloved person.
disgust	emotional_events	When I had to sleep in a bed at a hostel, which was full of dirt.
guilt	emotional_events	Incomprehension and repression towards a child's behaviour, commonly not accepted, and making the child cry.
disgust	emotional_events	A situation of overt unfairness, manipulation of people and its consequences.
guilt	emotional_events	When a close classmate failed a year.
joy	emotional_events	I was talking to a friend and he said something which was very funny.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was reading a book.  It had nothing to do with the book itself but with the disagreable smell of the pages of the book.
guilt	emotional_events	In an exam I answered the questions rather carelessly and afterwards I thought that the exam would have been better had I answered more carefully.
joy	emotional_events	When I knew that there were, at last, no problems in making a journey that I had been wanting to make for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	The first time I saw a pornographic film, all that in practice is so beautiful but on the screen appered as something mechanical, irrational, disgusting and dehumanizing.
guilt	emotional_events	When I do or say something inappropriate which hurts people close to me.
joy	emotional_events	When a study tour got confirmed, I was happy all the time till    the tour began.
disgust	emotional_events	My dog had been run over and died near the house.  We had to pick him up, cold and glassy eyed, to get rid of the corpse.
guilt	emotional_events	In an exam when I answered the questions with very little assurance due to insufficiet preparation.
joy	emotional_events	When I received my report card in C.O.U.  I was afraid of obtaining low marks, but they were much higher than expected.
disgust	emotional_events	I was at the table at a French friend's house.  They served me a big dish with roast cauliflower and sauce.  I had to eat it.
guilt	emotional_events	I was alone at home when I broke a figure and then mended it.  A few days later my mother noticed it and asked me about it, I told her that I had no idea.
joy	emotional_events	When I fell crazily in love with a beautiful girl and she returned my love.
disgust	emotional_events	When I entered a brothel and saw two sailors with a young prostitute who was not older than 18.
guilt	emotional_events	Having suffered a not very pretty sight, I reacted by uttering some very cruel and sharp words.
joy	emotional_events	When I came across an old friend whom I had not seen for a very long time.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw some images of a decapitation in a horror film.
guilt	emotional_events	I made another person cry for an unjustified cause.
joy	emotional_events	I received an unexpected letter from a friend I had met a short time before.  He sent me a poem and wished me good luck.  I felt very happy because I had great esteem for that person.
disgust	emotional_events	In a bus I fell sick and vomitted in a bag.  The entire situation was disgusting in itself.
guilt	emotional_events	I rejected a person whom I had always thought to be a friend.  I told him so and he reacted angrily.  I felt guilty at not having realized it before and at having hurt him.
joy	emotional_events	When I received some good news : I obtained an amount of money I needed to buy something I had been planning to buy.
disgust	emotional_events	I visited a place in Morocco where they worked the leather.  I saw the skins emerged in a liquid which ressembled putrification.
guilt	emotional_events	I was in a cafe with another person when, suddenly, several close friends of my partner appeared.  I did not know what to do and my partner felt uncomfortable.
joy	emotional_events	When I talk to my friends.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a film in which the man suffered from an illness and    his skin came peeling off.
guilt	emotional_events	[ When I act thinking that I know everything and I then realize that there were things I had not thought about, thus hurting others.]
joy	emotional_events	[ Any situation in everyday life has this emotional sense, in class, in the street, at home, at the table..........]
disgust	emotional_events	The physical appearance of a meal.
guilt	emotional_events	In a situation with my girlfriend I took a decision.  Later when I thought about it, I realized that it was an erroneous decision.
joy	emotional_events	One night, at a friend's place I realized that I had everything I most wished, around me.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was young, one day in the car we fell sick and ended up vomitting on each other.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend of mine felt bad because of something I had done to something that belonged to him.
joy	emotional_events	When they told me that I had been admitted to the faculty of medicine.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        operation.
guilt	emotional_events	When I used an adjective for a person without knowing what it meant.   When I got to know the meaning, I felt guilty as it was a clear and unfair insult.
joy	emotional_events	When I obtained good marks in a subject I had failed before.
disgust	emotional_events	Seeing a film in which there were several bloody crimes.
guilt	emotional_events	I had an argument with a friend of mine.  She would not let me speak and then I began to shout at her.  She got angry and left, I did not try to prevent her from leaving.
joy	emotional_events	When I was told that they had got tickets for me for a film marathon I wanted to see.
disgust	emotional_events	I found a big, black spider near a bag of food.
guilt	emotional_events	I had arranged to meet my friends at a certain place, and I was with other people.  My friends did not arrive and the people who were with me began to get tired.  My friends were one hour late.
joy	emotional_events	The man I am going around with gave me a very special present.
disgust	emotional_events	I had to wash my grandmother because she did not get to the bathroom on time.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was very young, one day, I kicked my grandmother and caused her an injury which took a long time to heal.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw a friend of mine, whom I had not seen for a long time and I had lost his address and telephone number.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was walking in a field which had a lot of manure.
guilt	emotional_events	I am not very affectionate and I feel guilty as I do not give as much affection as I receive.
joy	emotional_events	I was spending the week-end with some friends.  We were waiting for another friend and we went to the meet him at the bus stop, a  woman we met there told us that the coach had already left.  I was afraid that I would not see my friend, but at last we found him.
disgust	emotional_events	Finding a hair in the soup.
guilt	emotional_events	I had promised to say goodbye to a person who was going on a trip, and I did not turn up.
joy	emotional_events	I was on holidays, and I was going to meet a friend whom I had not seen for six months.  Again I felt very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	Ever since I have been a child, the sight of any kind of wound.
guilt	emotional_events	One night, I went out with some friends for dinner and I did not tell my parents that I would come back late.  I thought of phoning but in the end I did not.  When I arrived home, my parents were very worried.
joy	emotional_events	My sister in law was about to have a child, and there were some problems.  They had to do a Caesarean.  After a while, everything  was all right.
disgust	emotional_events	There was a cat on the street.  It had been run over and its head was open.  We passed beside it.
guilt	emotional_events	I had a small argument with a relative and some other people got implicated.  It resulted in a proper row.
joy	emotional_events	Last course, when I passed with good marks three subjects which I had previously failed.
disgust	emotional_events	I was drinking coffee in a cafe and I found a piece of scrubber in my cup.
guilt	emotional_events	At school, I did not tell the teacher that it was me who had laughed, and she punished the entire class by making them stay behind for one hour.
joy	emotional_events	One evening, I was with a group of friends having a talk.  There was a very trustful and joyful atmosphere.
disgust	emotional_events	In a film there was a scene in which a rat was sliding on a bed, leaving a trace of blood behind, finally it entered the mouth of one of the actors.
guilt	emotional_events	At a party, several comments were made about the personal situation of one of the people present.  She was rather affected and uncomfortable.
joy	emotional_events	It was Saturday, my duties were over for a few hours and I could at last be with the people I wanted to see.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a sort of black worm being attacked by many ants.
guilt	emotional_events	When I noticed the negative changes in a friend's behaviour.
joy	emotional_events	I was going to my village, after having been rather oppressed in Madrid.
disgust	emotional_events	I found a cockroach crushed between two folders in my bedroom, I called my mother.
guilt	emotional_events	I was spending a few days at my aunt's place.  One night I got home very late, I had told them I was going to a party but I went to another place.  They were very worried.
joy	emotional_events	Last Summer I achieved someting that I had been wanting for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	At the hypocrisy of some of my friends.
guilt	emotional_events	Due to a misunderstanding on my part, two of my best friends quarelled.
joy	emotional_events	When my brother was born, everything went all right.  It had been very likely that he would have a deficiency (my sister suffers from Down's Syndrome) and that my mother would be in danger.
disgust	emotional_events	In a park near our home, a group of young people who were strangely dressed were seated in the middle of the street.  They began to eat while carressing each other.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend of mine said in a group that she felt lonely and withdrawn from everyone because of mental deficiency.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the university entrance exam.  I had thus finished with a difficult period of my life and I was about to begin one which I had desired a lot.
disgust	emotional_events	When I came to know that my father and his parents were : self interested, dirty, negative, egoist, bad peolpe,......
guilt	emotional_events	When I was young I felt guilty because I thought that I had commited a grave sin.
joy	emotional_events	On my birthday, when I was given my presents.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was getting up, I found a live cockroach in my bedroom.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend of mine had the sleeves of a leather coat stolen from his car.  It was me who had left them there for everyone to see.
joy	emotional_events	The final marks were to be given in the morning.  I wanted to get there late because I was very afraid.  When I arrived there, everybody was very happy and I had also passed.  We had a wonderful time all day long.
disgust	emotional_events	I was at a friend's place for lunch and she fell ill and vomited.
guilt	emotional_events	Classes were over and I wanted to go home.  A friend of mine asked me to wait for half an hour to take him back home.  I said no.
joy	emotional_events	On holiday, seeing the lanscape in Gerona.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw an insect going up my arm.
guilt	emotional_events	Arguing with my younger cousin.  She is rather a nuisance but I felt sorry.
joy	emotional_events	When some friends of mine asked me to go camping with them for a fortnight.
disgust	emotional_events	When a person I did not know hurt a friend of mine.
guilt	emotional_events	Once, when I arrived home very late, my parents had an argument because of this; my mother wanted to stand up for me.
joy	emotional_events	I phoned a friend of mine to ask her for news about the marks in an exam.  She told me that I had passed.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a film in which there was a scene where women were cut to pieces.  Above all, it was the blood and the confusion which impressed me most.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend of mine trusted me to back her in a decision she had made.  But when the moment came I did not agree with her opinion.
joy	emotional_events	I was told that I had passed the statistics exam.  I had not expected this so I was very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	When opened a box of biscuits and found worms inside.
guilt	emotional_events	When I arrived home late at night.  I know that my mother gets worried and this made me feel angry.
joy	emotional_events	When I spoke to my daughter and wished her luck for the examinations she was about to take.
disgust	emotional_events	The transport to pick us up for lunch was always late and the driver made the same excuse every day.
guilt	emotional_events	When I did not give back a text book to a friend in time.
joy	emotional_events	When a cousin of mine was discharged from the hospital after       a long illness.  I had thought that this illness would never end.
disgust	emotional_events	When we were young, a friend of mine tried to dissect a frog while  we were playing near his home.
guilt	emotional_events	When I blamed my niece for misplacing my book, she denied having touched or seen it but I carried on insisting that it was her.
joy	emotional_events	After going through much shame, I became a Christian and something new happened in my heart.  Joy that overflows was manifest in me.
disgust	emotional_events	When I failed the grade 7 twice and only passed it the third time.
guilt	emotional_events	When they found out that I was absent from school, I had gone to the girl's secondary school.
joy	emotional_events	When I first passed a job interview.
disgust	emotional_events	I usually come back home early but this day I came home back late to find some visitors at my place.
guilt	emotional_events	I destroyed my step-brother's bedsheets by mistake, they were the only ones he had.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had made it to the second year at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	When someone whom I trusted, disappointed me terribly.
guilt	emotional_events	When I lied to my mum, who later came to know that what I had been teling her was false.
joy	emotional_events	When I hooked a girl in Kitwe.  She was very beautiful for my standards, a rare bird of this kind accepted me as a boyfriend.
disgust	emotional_events	When I got  grade \C\" in M160 at the end of my first year at á|UNZA.  I had expected a \"C+\" or a \"B\" as M160 is easy, going by my á|capacity in mathematics."
guilt	emotional_events	When my uncle found me having sexual intercourse with a distant relative of mine in the sitting room, on the couch.  I failed to stop and get up, I carried on.
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted for further education, here at the university.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was refused a transfer from my school to another, simply because it was far away from my house.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was caught stealing mangoes in a certain compound.
joy	emotional_events	When I got first division in the exams before leaving school.
disgust	emotional_events	When a drunkard, in town yelled at me saying that I was a prostitute.
guilt	emotional_events	When I went to my room-mate's drawer to see if she had an iron  which I could use, she came in.  I felt guilty as she may have thought that I had been stealing.
joy	emotional_events	When I had my four children.
disgust	emotional_events	When my mother betrayed me by obtaining money from my husband when we were separated - pending divorce.
guilt	emotional_events	When I beat up my son for having beaten up his sister.
joy	emotional_events	This happened when I went to check my first year results, I had  thought that I would fail and I found that I had a clear pass in all my courses.
disgust	emotional_events	When I heard of the assassination of the Indian prime-minister, Indira Gandhi.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was caught sneaking back into the house at night after having  gone to a disco without permission.
joy	emotional_events	When I was told that I had passed the exams.
disgust	emotional_events	I met my best friend's husband with a prostitute.
guilt	emotional_events	My brother wanted money but I refused to give it to him, two days later he stole it from my father.
joy	emotional_events	When I learnt that I was selected for form I.
disgust	emotional_events	When my girlfriend told me that she was no longer interested in me.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was caught with my girlfriend in the house at night.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the grade 7 exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When I realized that my closest friend had said bad things about me when I was not around and had betrayed me by making friends with my boyfriend's other girl.
guilt	emotional_events	When my mother returned from a holiday, I told her a lie i.e my father had brought another woman home while she was away.
joy	emotional_events	The time I qualified to enter secondary school.
disgust	emotional_events	The day I was forced to use a public convenience place in town.  It was so filthy that it really made me sick.
guilt	emotional_events	When I gave in to what my wife wanted and locked the cat out, it was killed by the dogs.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I came to know Christ.  That is when I became a Christian.
disgust	emotional_events	When my father thought that I was an unrelaible son.
guilt	emotional_events	When I insulted an elderly person for no reason.
joy	emotional_events	When my uncle gave me my first year's results.  I opened the envelope and my eyes ran into two \B+\" - in EC110 and M160, this á|meant that I had qualified for a major in economics."
disgust	emotional_events	I stormed into the room, hoping to cool myself with some soft music from my three band radio cassette.  There was only young Kaley there and he explained, \ Your aunt has sold it as she á|wanted to buy clothes.\""
guilt	emotional_events	My cousin knocked on the door, looking for me to get her watch back.  I had given it to my girlfriend, Lizzy, as a present.
joy	emotional_events	This was when the girl I was in love with accepted my proposal and everything went smoothly, just as I had wanted it to.  It was contrary to my previous feelings of uncertainty about her response.
disgust	emotional_events	This was when I saw, for the first time, a naked woman (prostitute) run away from a house after having been discovered by the guardian.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was afraid to tell my sports teacher at secondary school that I had not participated in the sports activities the previous day.
joy	emotional_events	I was in grade 7.  We had an inter-house volley-ball competition.  In Luapula I was the youngest member of the team and I scored  the winning goal using my head.  I jumped up with joy and fell down.
disgust	emotional_events	A pig in the well from which we drink.
guilt	emotional_events	I bumped my dad's car in a lamp post.  He was not at home then, neither was he home when I left for the campus.  I did not tell him about the accident and I will never tell him.
joy	emotional_events	I was at school whhen I received a letter from the dean of my school congratulating me for my performance at the previous year's exam.
disgust	emotional_events	When at school I thought that I was going to get the best results in mathematics, but it was someone else who got the prize.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I heard the results of my friend, who had failed.  I wished that I had helped him.
joy	emotional_events	My being admitted to UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	Over an argument.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had sufficient amount of money, I brought more clothes for myself than for the children - I  felt bad about it.
joy	emotional_events	My first kiss.
disgust	emotional_events	When I failed an exam.
guilt	emotional_events	I caught a close relative with the servant of the house.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed my form three exams.
disgust	emotional_events	When my brother promised me money but he failed to fulfill the promise.
guilt	emotional_events	When I took drugs.
joy	emotional_events	As the time to get the results drew near I became more and more anxious.  My friend called me and said, \ You have passed.\"  My á|heart was full of joy."
disgust	emotional_events	One day I went to town to get my grocery.  On my way back, I took a mini bus which was full of drunk students.  I felt very disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	I remember deceiving my brother, I told him that I was going to attend the Sunday service, instead I went out to the town with a friend.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that a close relative of mine had given birth at a very young age, in a very remote area and had had very few problems.
disgust	emotional_events	When some people, including me, are treated in a way which equates them to an animal or a thing.
guilt	emotional_events	When I did something wrong in the past and denied having done it when asked about it later.
joy	emotional_events	My girlfriend wrote to me telling me that she was four months pregnant and that I was responsible for the \damages\".  This made á|me happy as I longed to have a child to call mine."
disgust	emotional_events	This happened when I went to visit my friend in Chelston and found him screwing my girlfriend.
guilt	emotional_events	My father caught me having sexual intercourse with my closest cousin.  There was nothing wrong with it but the female was too old for me.
joy	emotional_events	When a girl I wanted very much, said \yes\" and fell in love with  á|me."
disgust	emotional_events	A class-mate answered (accidentally) the call of nature in the class during a tough mathematics examination.
guilt	emotional_events	I took some money from my parent's house without asking them for it, and I was caught red handed.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when I discovered that I had passed my first year examination and was among the thirty students who would major in economics.
disgust	emotional_events	When I discovered that my mother had been involved in adultery.
guilt	emotional_events	Dad had just married his second wife (my step-mother) and I did not like her so I went to the wardrobe and set fire to her dresses.  Eveyone suspected my brother and he had to bear the consequences.  Nobody ever got to know that it was me who had done it.
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted at the university wanting some of us to travel from our homes to the lectures here every day.  The way the whole thing was handled disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	When I cheated my father about the book allowance at university.  He discovered that we were given K150 per year for books.
joy	emotional_events	I experienced joy when I got the results - I had made it to the second year.
disgust	emotional_events	This happened when I could not get into the school I had initially wanted, and ended up doing something I had never thought I would do.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother had sent me to buy a few things.  The change I brought back was not right as I had given away some money to a friend thinking that she would not notice it.  However, my mother told me that the change was not correct.
joy	emotional_events	When my first child was born.
disgust	emotional_events	When my best friend started getting involved in my private affairs.
guilt	emotional_events	I send a word to my boss through my servant telling him that I would not report for work as I was not feeling well and that the   doctor had refused to give me sick leave.  My intention was actually to go out of Lusaka for a week-end.  I left the same day and the following morning my boss found me in Mongu.  I felt guilty when asked to explain things on my return.
joy	emotional_events	I received a letter of acceptance from UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a friend's husband with another woman.
guilt	emotional_events	I accused my husband of being late deliberately when he came to pick me up from work.
joy	emotional_events	When I was appointed by the Ministry of health to join the teaching staff of one of the medical colleges.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was told that the brother who was staying with me would not go to the training school that year but only the year after.
guilt	emotional_events	When I broke up my relationship with my former girlfriend as she would ask me irrelevant quetions about my past.
joy	emotional_events	When I received my promotion letter.
disgust	emotional_events	I was in a train when a woman started talking loudly and attracting everybody's attention.  The worst thing was that she was discussing something, about which she knew nothing, with another person.
guilt	emotional_events	A certain woman had asked me to make something for her and I kept putting it off.  When I finally made it, I did not see her for days only to be told one day that she had collapsed and died.  I felt quite guilty as she had jokingly said that I might not do what she had requested me to do.
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted for my third year (G-10) at my former secondary school.
disgust	emotional_events	When I failed to secure employment after my form 5 in Lusaka despite my excellent certificate.
guilt	emotional_events	When I beat up a first year student at my secondary school in my capacity as the deputy head boy.  He had woken up late in the  morning for manual work.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that someone who is very close to me did very well in the exams despite having fooled around a lot.
disgust	emotional_events	When a boy put a handful of cooked potatoes down my dress and there was no water to clean up.
guilt	emotional_events	When my boyfriend asked me to go out with him and I refused because I wanted to go out with another guy.  I did go out and my boyfriend found out.
joy	emotional_events	After a long time (of no communication with him, physical illness and worry) my lover came to see me, when I least expected to see him.
disgust	emotional_events	On Christmas day a drunk man came to our house without a shirt on, he dansed, spoke nonsense and behaved stupidly.
guilt	emotional_events	My baby sister was 2-3 months old and when I was trying to get her on my back, she slipped and fell.
joy	emotional_events	My son was registered to get admission in grade one of the         primary school.  The chances of him getting a place there was 1/10.  Two weeks later I was informed that he had been enrolled.
disgust	emotional_events	The teacher of one course gave me 10 questions with sub-questions going from a to e for each question.  She asked me to do all this in one and a half hours.  It involved a lot of describing and explaining and even though I knew all the answers, I could not finish the work.
guilt	emotional_events	I was to inform the neighbour on my left that a robber had been spotted the same evening near the house of the neighbour in front.  I did not do it and the same day the thieves broke into this neighbour's house.
joy	emotional_events	When my father bought me a suit.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disappointed by a girlfriend when I visited her at her home in Woodlands.
guilt	emotional_events	I was caught stealing a box of matches in the supermarket and had to plead guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had achieved a place in form I.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone stole a K10 note and the teacher thought that it was me when I was not responsible for the theft.
guilt	emotional_events	One day my mother went to visit her friends.  When she came back she scolded me for not having kept the house in order, so I decided not to talk to her.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw my family after a separation of one year.
disgust	emotional_events	I am disgusted at the number of second year students who are pregnant illegitimately.
guilt	emotional_events	When my aunt went out of her way to help me out with my financial problems.
joy	emotional_events	When I fell in love with \X\".  Overnight I felt confidence, self-esteem,    á|responsible and worthwhile."
disgust	emotional_events	When my cousin put feaces in my washing.  A silly idea which was meant to be a joke.
guilt	emotional_events	When I took a small boy's share of choclale.  He was our guest and so had been given a larger share of the sweets.
joy	emotional_events	The day I got a telegram telling me that I had been selected for a B.A at UNZA.  I felt happy because I had not expected to be selected.
disgust	emotional_events	The day I went to eat dinner in the dinning hall and found a dead fly in my gravy.
guilt	emotional_events	The day I came home drunk after having attended a disco party.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when I received the year end results as I was worried about how well I had done.  I was very happy to know that I had passed.
disgust	emotional_events	When thieves broke into our house, I was disgusted by their behaviour.  They did not find anything so they broke things like the windows, glasses etc.
guilt	emotional_events	I was caught doing something bad and I bribed the person who caught me.  Later I felt very bad, maybe I should have paid for my bad behaviour.
joy	emotional_events	When I received a positive answer from my appeal to withdraw my registration at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	When I learnt that my offer to study at the university had been withdrawn  and so I would not get hostel accomodation at UNZA, even though I registered as a student later.
guilt	emotional_events	I came across a blind man sitting in one of the corridors and asking for money, though I had some money I did not give him anything.
joy	emotional_events	When I first came to the campus.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was denied my favourite dish at the dinning hall (shima with roast chicken), I felt disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	When my library books were overdue and I did not have the money to pay for them.
joy	emotional_events	When I got my results - I had passed the form III exams.  I had not expected to do so well.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a woman who had been run over by a train, just off Kafue.  The woman had been cut to bits, there was blood and        splinters of bone every where.
guilt	emotional_events	When I \passed out\" a female friend of mine for no apparent á|reason.  I was under the influence of drugs and when I am like á|that I get mad at anyone, however small the provocation."
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	When my mother got a terrible beating from my father.  It was so bad that she fainted and it was only then that my dad realized how bad it was.
guilt	emotional_events	When I lied at home.   I told them that I was going to a Christian meeting and I went to see my boyfriend instead.
joy	emotional_events	Receiving my result slip (pass) on my birthday.
disgust	emotional_events	My room-mate was drunk, he vomited on the floor and fell face down on the vomit nearly choking himself to death.  Then he fainted and so I called the first aid.
guilt	emotional_events	I got into a bad fight in a bar and my friend received a bad cut above his left eye while trying to separate us.
joy	emotional_events	I felt vvery happy when I was accepted at UNZA for my studies.  I had not expected this as I had been ill during the exams.
disgust	emotional_events	When I witnessed an accident.
guilt	emotional_events	I took my grandmother's money without telling her and when asked if it was me who had taken the money, I denied it.
joy	emotional_events	When I won some coins in a small competion.
disgust	emotional_events	When I learnt that my cousin sister was pregnant.
guilt	emotional_events	The fridge we had at home had a lock.  One day when I wanted something, I unscrewed the door but unfortunately I was caught in the act.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected for the university.
disgust	emotional_events	While watching a movie, someone who was drunk started vomiting helplessly.
guilt	emotional_events	When I told a person something that had happened to my friend, and this person went and told my friend.
joy	emotional_events	When I got myself the kind of girlfriend I had been hunting for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was taking my girlfriend out, she seemed to have taken her time.
guilt	emotional_events	When I beat up a stupid boy who was fond of cracking jokes on me.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected for higher education, i.e grade 7 to formI.
disgust	emotional_events	When I patronized a certain tavern which had prostitutes, it was almost a brothel.
guilt	emotional_events	When I sided with my mother in a quarrel she had with my father before they briefly separated.
joy	emotional_events	When I received a letter from a woman I thought had not ever cared for me.  This was when I needed her and I was overjoyed to learn that it was me who was delaying things.
disgust	emotional_events	I feel disgusted at not having got aa \A\" in yesterday's á|practicals of G220."
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty of having suspected my room-mate of stealing the money last term.
joy	emotional_events	Our only elder sister got married and started having pains in her abdomen and she was told that she could not have children. To our suprise she had a baby 2 months back.
disgust	emotional_events	I had prepared a special meal for my boyfriend but when my brother came home he ate it all.  I was really disgusted about it.
guilt	emotional_events	We were at secondary school and I was making a lot of noise.  The teacher came to ask us as to who was making all the noise.  I did not own up so the  whole class was punished.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when my scholarship to continue studying at UNZA was approved after it had been cancelled.
disgust	emotional_events	An officer at the Dean of students office had promised me to give me a room the next day, but he failed to keep his promise.
guilt	emotional_events	I broke a glass of glycerine at the Z.C.B.C store in Ndola.
joy	emotional_events	When I was with someone I love.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was told that I had no right to control my lover.
guilt	emotional_events	When one of my lovers told me that I was a flirt.
joy	emotional_events	At my sister's wedding.
disgust	emotional_events	When I found out that someone close to me was flirting around.
guilt	emotional_events	I did not deliver a message on time.
joy	emotional_events	When the lady who is now my wife accepted my proposal to be my lover and future wife.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was substituted in a play which was to be staged, after I had learnt all the lines.
guilt	emotional_events	When I applied for a false travelling claim allowance and later I thought that I would be found out.
joy	emotional_events	I felt happy when my mother gave birth to a son who is the last born in the family.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when a fellow student asked me to marry him.  I had not expected this from him as he was a mere friend.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I said bad things to my sister, I had not intended to do so.  She cried a lot and later she fell ill and I felt responsible for her illness.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to study here at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	When my relatives troubled me so that I would help them financially.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was late for work and told my boss that it was due to transport problem, whereas the truth was that I had woken up late.  I thus cheated my boss.
joy	emotional_events	I was overwhelmed with joy when I received the acceptance letter to UNZA.  This happened again when I passed all my first year courses.
disgust	emotional_events	Last week a former school (secondary) mate of mine, who is now in a differentt school came to my room here at UNZA in my absence.  He was drunk and he vomited in my room.  I was unhappy.
guilt	emotional_events	Last year I was asked to look after my niece while her mother was cooking.  Unfortunately the kid fell off the bed, I was confident that she would not fall and had not been paying much attention.
joy	emotional_events	When I qualified for form I.  I was one of the three pupils who qualified for form I that year.
disgust	emotional_events	When my demand for accomodation on the campus was refused and the rooms were allotted to first year students who were from \Rucher\" á|and came from influential families."
guilt	emotional_events	When I told the driver at my workplace to lie and tell the boss that it was not me who was responsible for the delay.  The boss was very annoyed and the driver was punished and a day's salary was taken away from him.
joy	emotional_events	When my wife gave birth to a baby boy - my only son to date.
disgust	emotional_events	When my friend, after a beer spree vomitted in my sitting room.
guilt	emotional_events	When it was discovered that I had done the assignment at my work place, this caused a lot of embarrassment for me.
joy	emotional_events	When my brother gave me a watch.
disgust	emotional_events	When I found my girl in bed with another man.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was caught going out with another girl by my girlfriend.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the first year and so I could come back for my second year.
disgust	emotional_events	When my grandmother came to stay with us permanently as she is a very difficult person to stay with and when she started telling false stories about us to other people.
guilt	emotional_events	One day when I was working, I went out for dinner with friends without my parents knowledge and I only came home at 2300 hours.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when I found out that I had passed with flying colours and that I had made it to the university.
disgust	emotional_events	One of these people who sell meat in town used a knife to stab his friend and later carried on using the same knife to cut meat.
guilt	emotional_events	This is a kind of confession - my mum found me stealing meat from the pot.
joy	emotional_events	The first time I really fell in love with a girl.
disgust	emotional_events	When I, for the first time, failed a junior exam, i.e form 3.
guilt	emotional_events	When I nearly got my fiancee pregnant.
joy	emotional_events	When my sister's first child came home, after one week in intensive care at the hospital.
disgust	emotional_events	When I went to report a stolen good at the police station, the woman-officer-in-charge was very rude and did not seem to have respect for anyone.
guilt	emotional_events	I failed to keep a promise and this had a serious effet on someone's problem.
joy	emotional_events	When I met my mother after not having seen her for three years.
disgust	emotional_events	When the committee, to which I belong, was accused of having squandered the money of the association.
guilt	emotional_events	When my friend was punished for something that I had done.
joy	emotional_events	For my parents anniversary, we hosted a party and we were very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	I came across a woman in town who was very drunk.  She was swearing at everyone and carried on drinking even though she could hardly stand.
guilt	emotional_events	I had stopped talking to a very close friend of mine.  A week later he came over to try and make friends with me  again and from the way he talked I felt that he was a very mean preson.
joy	emotional_events	When I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal saviour.
disgust	emotional_events	When I failed the  grade 7 exams.
guilt	emotional_events	When I hurt my sisters for no reason at all.
joy	emotional_events	When I attended my cousin's 31st birthday.
disgust	emotional_events	When I found a maggot in my food at the dinning hall, all the food had gone bad.
guilt	emotional_events	An item which belonged to a friend of mine was missing.  I had taken it earlier and I thought that I had returnrd it so when he asked me for it I stubbornly refused having it.  Later when I looked for it, I found it in my room.
joy	emotional_events	When I got my results ( I had made it to the second year ).
disgust	emotional_events	When I heard that my sister had shouted at my friend's cousin at their place.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had lied, saying that I never take bread from the dinning hall and a friend of mine caught me doing it.  He thus proved to me that I did in fact take the bread.
joy	emotional_events	When my girl told me that she loved me more than any male creature on earth and that I would be the only one in her heart for all her life.
disgust	emotional_events	When a girl said in my back that we were in love, and she had actually refused me.  When I confronted her she started insulting me.
guilt	emotional_events	A girl dropped some stuff from her bag and when I tried to help her I realized that she had used me and I was made to look like a fool.
joy	emotional_events	When I learnt that I had been accepted at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	When my younger sister visited me during the school holidays and told me that she would not go back to school because she was pregnant.
guilt	emotional_events	When I cheated my father and told him that the school administration wanted K80 for the purchase of a mini-bus.  Two months later the school authorities wrote back to my father for the money.  I could not go back and ask him for the money again as he had already given it to me once.
joy	emotional_events	When I received the acceptance letter from UNZA.  I had just come home from work when my kind sister handed me an enveloppe which I opened and was overcome with joy.
disgust	emotional_events	A certain girl asked me what my major was and when I told her that it was P.A she started criticizing it saying, \I hate that á|course.\"  She just shows off in front of other people."
guilt	emotional_events	I told my elder brother that he was irresponsible and that I did not care for what he did because he was teasing me.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to this university despite my having studyied in difficulty throughout my secondary school days.
guilt	emotional_events	I was drunk one night and I insulted three ladies.  The following morning they approached me and asked me the reason behind my bahaviour, I apologized for my unruly behaviour.
joy	emotional_events	I felt happy when I learnt that I had qualified for the grade eight.
disgust	emotional_events	When I found out that the seat in the coach that I had booked had been sold to somebody else.
guilt	emotional_events	When I discovered that the girl I was courting was a relative of mine.
joy	emotional_events	My son passed grade 7 and was accepted for form I.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was teaching a student started making silly remarks in class.
guilt	emotional_events	I bought something and the shopkeeper gave me more change, I realized this after I had left the shop and was on the bus-stop - and I then needed the money.
joy	emotional_events	When I received the acceptance form for the second year at university.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted at the way the bus conductor threw out an old woman oiut of the mini-bus simply because she could not pay the fare for her luggage.
disgust	emotional_events	The same as in SHAME.
guilt	emotional_events	When I got fired from a job because I gave a discount to a friend.
joy	emotional_events	Our basketball team is undefeated in league play (4-0) currently.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted at my teams poor perfomance prior to league play.
joy	emotional_events	I received a grade above average on a midterm (chemistry) and I expected onevery below average.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw someone that I thought I knew repeatedly drunk. I do not like to be around alcoholics.
guilt	emotional_events	I blew up at someone for being confused and because of his irresponsibility and afterwards I felt guilty and that I had no right.
joy	emotional_events	Right before I went to a concert with my last boyfriend he told me that although he told me he was going to take me to the concert, he didn't want to see me anymore. After that we stayed overnight and I said \well, when he leaves me I will be ruined á|for awhile, but for now we're together.\" I woke up in his arms á|and it was the happiest moment of my life."
disgust	emotional_events	I was listening to a priest in church saying how sinful man was, and how all men should renounce their desires and pleasures to please God. I could never understand how something that brings you joy could be a sin.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was 5, a few of my friends and I would light matches for fun. One of my friends confessed to her parents and my parents, I guess, knew or suspected I was involved but I said I knew nothing about it.
joy	emotional_events	I felt extreme joy the day I was baptized. I was one with God.
disgust	emotional_events	When I committed a sin mentioned in ANGER. A sin of sexual immorality.
guilt	emotional_events	When I committed the sin of immorality mentioned before.
joy	emotional_events	Finally being asked by someone to a banquet.
disgust	emotional_events	A girlfriend of mine behaves in a very childish way - she does not like my going to see a friend who has been introduced to me by this same friend of mine.  I would like to be friends with both of them, but she does not like this as she is possessive and would like me to be close only to her.
guilt	emotional_events	A few days back my mother was not feeling too well and still did all the house work.  I felt guilty as I had not offered to help.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the B.A exams and my parents allowed me to carry on my studies and do a M.A. , I was very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	A friend of mine remembered me when she needed me and did not even think about me when she did not need me.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I have not felt this emotion.]
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the B.A exams with 1st class.  I was the first in the family to have got a 1st class, so all the family members were very happy and they gave me the opportunity to study further.
disgust	emotional_events	[ I feel disgust at people lying.  It means that they say one thing to one person and the same thing in another way to another person and this makes people quarrel among themselves.]
guilt	emotional_events	When my pet dog,who was to us a family member, died.  He had been vomitting for the past three days and we had not found the time to call a vet, finally when the vet came it was already too late.
joy	emotional_events	When last year in college I received the award \Best Student of the Year\", á|  I felt very happy as I got what I had wanted and my wish had á|been fulfilled.á
disgust	emotional_events	At work when I did not get the full co-operation of my colleagues to complete an assignment.
guilt	emotional_events	In the begining of teenage, on the matters of sex - speaking about sex.
joy	emotional_events	In 1980 when I was in the 12th standard, we had arranged a small picnic in Kandala.  One of my closest friends wrote a small and cute poem for me, which expressed the feeling of closeness we had for each other.  I was very thrilled and I can still remember it.
disgust	emotional_events	After joining my M.A in Social Sciences, I appeared for the first semester exam.  I failed one of the exams, and when I looked at my results I felt disgusted and then I got angry.
guilt	emotional_events	[ Never felt the emotion.]
joy	emotional_events	I met my friend and he gave me a wonderful present as it was my birthday.  I enjoyed having that present.
disgust	emotional_events	My notes were not returned to me, it kept on being procrastinated.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend of mine got encouragement and I did not, as the supervisor did not like me.
joy	emotional_events	When I got the scholarship letter from Australia.
guilt	emotional_events	I had known the girl for a few months when I proposed to her and this put an end to our friendship, as from then on we started withdrawing from each other.  I liked her very much.
joy	emotional_events	When my elder sister had a baby girl.  She was the first girl in the family after 19 years of baby boys.
disgust	emotional_events	One evening when a boy who was drunk made a pass at me by trying to kiss me.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had promised to do some washing for my mother and I did not do it.  She did it herself despite her being ill.  I felt very guilty.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when I passed and went to form I.  It was a great relief for me as I had been very worried considering the large number of pupils who fail.
disgust	emotional_events	When one of my friends started misbehaving.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was scolded by my dad for bad behaviour.
joy	emotional_events	After waiting impatiently for the results of the form 5 examinations for almost a year, at last I received a letter of acceptance from the Senate of the university of Zambia telling me that I had made it to the first year course at UNZA.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted to discover that my girlfriend of few weeks was already fooling around with another guy.  I was disappointed as the guy was a rogue and I respected my girlfriend.
guilt	emotional_events	A very, very close friend of mine used to come to my room to      see me and I naver bothered to pay him a visit.  One day he asked me the reason behind this and I gave him a shirt.
joy	emotional_events	When I received the first year results as the first year had involved a lot of work and I was very pleased when I got the results.
disgust	emotional_events	When a student accused me of having stolen his textbook  as he had found a form bearing my name in his other books and all my explanations fell on deaf ears.
guilt	emotional_events	When my mother found me in her bedroom \stealing\" sugar in her á|bedroom.  According to our customs there comes a stage when a á|child stops using the parents bedroom and I was well past that á|age."
joy	emotional_events	The computer at school had left out my name along with four others and I had no rights for one year.  So I was happy to find my name on the medical schhol list.
disgust	emotional_events	I was eating in the dinning hall and some women joined me.  I could not eat with them so I left the dinning hall.
guilt	emotional_events	When my friends and I were caught with our girlfriends outside the school grounds when I was at the secondary school.  We were caught by the headmaster.
joy	emotional_events	I had been very weary all week - no letters, no phonecalls, no visitors and then my younger sister came with some cheese, a card and some pocket money for me; and she told me that she was working now.
disgust	emotional_events	I went to the shopping centre to buy something and saw packets of Kapenta  with maggots in them. Oh !
guilt	emotional_events	A very close friend of mine invited me to spend the holidays with him.  He was very kind, good and understanding.  However it turned out that he had two of his cousins at his place.  He, however gave me everything I needed - even transport money.
joy	emotional_events	When my girl and I decided to get back together after our separation.
disgust	emotional_events	When I failed my first biochemistry test.
guilt	emotional_events	I was trying to have sex with my best friend's girl but she did not agree to it.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed successive exams to enter the school of medicine.
disgust	emotional_events	When my room-mate made a mess of the room after having drunk the whole night at a graduation party ceremony.
guilt	emotional_events	After I reluctantly refused to dine with a certain man on the same table.
joy	emotional_events	When my elder brother, who had gone abroad to study  for six years, came back home safe and in good health.
disgust	emotional_events	I went to spend a night with a relative of mine and there I found that the bed had been wet the previous night.
guilt	emotional_events	The first time that I \played with myself\" despite being a á|Christian.  I had read in the bible that it was wrong to make á|love to someone one is not married to."
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had got the best result in school and would be definately selected to the university of Zambia.
disgust	emotional_events	When a \friend\" woke me up in the middle of a blessful sleep by á|knocking on the door.  Then he started calling me names and á|saying that he had heard that I had been talking behind his back, this á|was a lie and the guy was drunk to the core."
guilt	emotional_events	When I realized that not all my friends like the comments that I pass in their presence.
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted into the medical school.  Medicine is a profession that I have desired ever since my childhood.
disgust	emotional_events	When I heard that a woman of my community had aborted and got rid of the foetus by throwing it in the drain.
guilt	emotional_events	When my friend ended up pregnant by a gentleman whom I considered to be good and faithful but he ended up neglecting her and not bothering about her.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had been selected fot the first year at the university of Zambia.  This was after my form five at Chikola secondary school.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was accused of having impregnated someone's daughter, it was the girl's cousin who had done it.
guilt	emotional_events	When I told my uncle a false story - that people had stolen the books from my room and I demanded money from him.  When he found out the truth I was in trouble.
joy	emotional_events	When I won the best prize in the National science fair.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a drunk man urinate upon himsellf and he seemed to be thoroughly content with it.
guilt	emotional_events	When I overate at lunch.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard the examination results and when I recovered after having been sick for a week.
disgust	emotional_events	When I went to the clinic for a medical check-up and saw the way the lecturer was conducting the lecture and the kind of responses he got from the patients.
guilt	emotional_events	When I lied to the physiology teacher.
joy	emotional_events	When I learnt that I had been accepted at the medical school.
disgust	emotional_events	I witnessed a scene in which two women were abusing each other.
guilt	emotional_events	I was to take a test and I had not made the necessary preparations until it was too late.  There were two days to go and I still had not done much.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to the university of Zambia.
disgust	emotional_events	When I failed the entrance exam of the medical school and was studying biochemistry which has no job prospects in Zambia.
guilt	emotional_events	When I got very drunk and really misbehaved at Christmas.
joy	emotional_events	When I was offered a place in the university as a full time student.
disgust	emotional_events	When my elder brother failed form five in 1968 when I was 5 years old.
guilt	emotional_events	When I cheated my trusting girlfriend by telling her that I was a qualified doctor and later she found out that I was only a medical student at the preclinical level.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had passed the second year exams.
disgust	emotional_events	When my father shouted at me for going to a party with my sister.
guilt	emotional_events	When I forgot to cook something that my mother had told me to, and at supper time the food that I was supposed to have prepared was not there.
joy	emotional_events	When I qualified for form I.
disgust	emotional_events	When my parents insisted that I take up a teaching career.
guilt	emotional_events	When I beat up my brother so badly, for not having gone to school, that we had to take him to hospital.
joy	emotional_events	When the Cambridge results came out and I obtained a first division.  I had been thinking that I had not done very well.
disgust	emotional_events	When a girl I knew aborted and threw the seven month foetus in a man-hole.
guilt	emotional_events	When I laughed at a lame man walking down the road, it looked funny at the time but later I felt lousy.  It was the same day that I had stolen some coins from my mother in the shop.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed and qualified for the university.
disgust	emotional_events	When I beat up my brother in order to control him and make him obey my parents orders.
guilt	emotional_events	I encouraged my brother to play football and he was hurt while playing the game.
joy	emotional_events	A few weeks back I received a Christmas card from a friend in England.  She had not written to me in a very long time but it     showed that she still remembered me.
disgust	emotional_events	I once saw an elderly lady who was not properly dressed.  She was wearing a transparent dress, such things are not sopposed to be seen in African society.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had been selected for the university.
disgust	emotional_events	Being mistreated by my former primary school teacher, Mr Zalu.
guilt	emotional_events	In September 1984 I got two girls pregnant and the families of both the girls confronted me .  The fact was that my parents were around and I felt guilty answering some of the questions.
joy	emotional_events	When I was with the girl I love very much, for the graduatiion ball.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I do not remember any event when I felt guilty.]
joy	emotional_events	When my parents complimented me very nicely on something.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when we (family) avoided a problem which could be solved readily.
guilt	emotional_events	When I could not fulfill my expectations.
joy	emotional_events	When I got engaged to a boy of my choice.
disgust	emotional_events	When a close friend of mine maintained a relationship with me till she needed me and broke it off when she did not need me.  She behaved life a really selfish person.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I have not felt this emotion in my life.]
joy	emotional_events	When I passed my B.A exams.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt very disgusted at a friend to whom I had given a Psychology book to read, and she did not care to give me back the book during the exams.
guilt	emotional_events	When I did not concentrate on my studies despite my mother's help and cooperation.
guilt	emotional_events	Mentioning a book to the person who borrowed it.
joy	emotional_events	Being chosen to do this experiment.
disgust	emotional_events	Cueing for bath for a long time.
guilt	emotional_events	I did not do my homework and went to see a film.
joy	emotional_events	Doing well in the examn.
disgust	emotional_events	Noisy people in the library.
guilt	emotional_events	Telling my parents that I did not get into a good university.
joy	emotional_events	Getting into this university to do medicine.
disgust	emotional_events	Some students trying to please the lecturer.
guilt	emotional_events	I am not good enough to join any team to play sport for the class.
joy	emotional_events	Reading a nice book and talking about it to my friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a dead rat on the street.
guilt	emotional_events	Too busy to write letters to friends and they said I had forgotten about them.
joy	emotional_events	Going to a concert.
disgust	emotional_events	First anatomy lesson.
guilt	emotional_events	Broken a friend's cup.
joy	emotional_events	Good dinner on the National Day.
disgust	emotional_events	Dead rat in the kitchen of the university.
guilt	emotional_events	Did not pick up a water mellon skin, someone slipped on it.
joy	emotional_events	Watching the Asian Olympic game (China winning).
disgust	emotional_events	People talking in an important lecture.
guilt	emotional_events	Thinking about other things in a lecture.
joy	emotional_events	Got a big fish in fishing.
disgust	emotional_events	When junior doctors returned to work after bunking them.
guilt	emotional_events	When the student union leaders were expelled from the university and we continued to study.
joy	emotional_events	When my boyfriend and I made up.
disgust	emotional_events	When a classmate of ours knocked on our door at 2 o'clock in the morning.  I was disgusted at his behaviour.
guilt	emotional_events	I broke a cup and put it back without telling anyone about it and someone almost got blamed for it, then it was discovered that it was me who had broken it.
joy	emotional_events	At church camp when I accepted Christ into my life and so did my friend.
guilt	emotional_events	Whenever I see poverty and starvation. I live in an affluent society and am privileged to have many opportunities.
joy	emotional_events	During the summer I received grade cards from my TA's. I expected a B no better in Computer Science. I looked at the card - I got an A - I was ecstatic.
disgust	emotional_events	Seeing a person panhandling money on Telegraph.
guilt	emotional_events	The night of a high school dance, I went partying and collided with another car. Both cars were totalled; people were injured but not seriously.
joy	emotional_events	When seeing a friend that I had not seen in a long while.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgust as a result of one of my midterms - I thought I had prepared well for it, but the end result wasn't what I had expected.
guilt	emotional_events	In neglecting some work that had to be done around the house and telling my roommate I would get it done.
joy	emotional_events	Achieving my goal at a swim meet. I worked toward the goal for 9 yrs. I was capable of achieving it, but I didn't know when.
disgust	emotional_events	Seeing a friend \making love\" to a high school girl. I á|accidentally was dragged into this room where the happenings had á|occurred. I was disgusted at the reality."
guilt	emotional_events	After moving out of my apt. I took all the furniture and dishes and everything. It was mine but I took it all just to spite my roomies. We had a few (a lot) of disagreements. I felt guilt for moving out for the bad reasons.
joy	emotional_events	It was the weekend of my homecoming. I saw my sister for the first time in 3 months. She's my best friend and extremely close.
disgust	emotional_events	I was supposed to be studying for my math midterm a few days ago, however, I fooled around with my roommate, and didn't start studying until 12:00 am. I was disgusted with myself.
joy	emotional_events	I got an A in anatomy - the first one I have ever gotten in a science class here.
disgust	emotional_events	My parents claimed me on their income tax after I had been out of the house for two years receiving no financial support from them. As result I had to work more during school because they were expected by the FAO to contribute to my education when they refuse to do so.
guilt	emotional_events	Getting a D in a class last semester and knowing it was because I didn't study.
joy	emotional_events	Went to a movie with a date, walked on the beach (in Alameda) spent some time afterwards in her apt.
disgust	emotional_events	I found out that someone that I knew had someone else taking tests for her.
guilt	emotional_events	I called off a relationship with one girl so I could see another.
joy	emotional_events	I asked someone to go out and she accepted right away.
disgust	emotional_events	When I lose on my bets on anything - baseball, football, basketball, track, craps, poker, or arcade - whether its 5 dollars or 200 I feel that I should never have done it in the first place.
guilt	emotional_events	My mom told me not to gamble, but I did anyway. Sometimes I would even take some money from my parents and brother. She found out and yelled at me.
joy	emotional_events	Finished a difficult midterm.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a scene in a movie implying incest as humorous.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was a kid I stole toys from other kids.
joy	emotional_events	Did very, very well on a Physics midterm.
disgust	emotional_events	When I stand at the bus stop for one hour waiting for the bus to arrive.
guilt	emotional_events	About not helping my sister when she asked me to help her on her chemistry class. I pretended to be busy.
joy	emotional_events	When I won my car.
disgust	emotional_events	When a friend of mine keeps telling me morbid things that happened to his dog.
guilt	emotional_events	When I did not go to work because I had to study for a midterm.
joy	emotional_events	At a party in which I met an interesting female. We enjoyed eachothers company, while slow dacing.
disgust	emotional_events	Right now I volunteer at a hospital. Yesterday, Halloween, I dressed up as a doctor and went to work. The volunteer coordinator told me after my shift that it was dangerous to have done what I did.
guilt	emotional_events	After days or weekends where I did not accomplish the amount of sudying that I wanted to because of more pleasant activities which come up.
joy	emotional_events	Last year my freshman yr. It was a day in March I did well on some tests. I seemed to finally adjust to college, it was hot and sunny. I was walking in front of a frat. when I heard Beach Boys \Surfin'USA\". I had this overwhelming feeling that to be at CAL á|was good. I still have it somewhat."
disgust	emotional_events	I applied for a job of GALSO counselor and I made the strongest possible application but was denied an interview. I felt disgusted at the system which by promoting the cause of minorities makes employing whites lowest priority.
guilt	emotional_events	When I lied last week. I lied to someone to get info. for a paper I was writing. I told her that the info. was for a newspaper article. I was afraid if I told the truth she wouldn't help me.
joy	emotional_events	Someone (a boy) paid special attention to me.
disgust	emotional_events	A friend of mine had sex with someone of a different race on a Winnebago trip down to USC in front of everyone (all my friends embarrassed my sorority house name).
guilt	emotional_events	I'm allergic to most foods - eating something that I'm allergic to caused guilt.
joy	emotional_events	My last genetices midterm - a decent grade.
disgust	emotional_events	When other people refuse to do their house jobs and give the work to someone else.
guilt	emotional_events	Forgetting a close friend's birthday.
joy	emotional_events	I received an unexpected B+ on an engineering midterm. I did not study nearly as much as I should have and it was a difficult test.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw part of a Prince video with him crawling out of a bath tub.
guilt	emotional_events	I slammed my little brother into a wall because he was bothering me.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out my grades at the end of my freshman year.
disgust	emotional_events	Finding out my grades at the end of my Sophomore year.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was about 17 years old and I stole some pens from a stationery store because I didn't have enough money.
joy	emotional_events	Going to Chico to visit a friend.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was getting so fat.
guilt	emotional_events	Having an affair with my good friend's best friend. And every time I see my best friend I feel guilt because we can't tell him.
joy	emotional_events	When  fell in love with my present girlfriend.
disgust	emotional_events	When I study my butt off for a midterm and still get an average grade.
guilt	emotional_events	When I copy someone else's problem set.
joy	emotional_events	I got a very good grade on one of my midterms a few weeks ago.
disgust	emotional_events	Doing poorly on a midterm.
guilt	emotional_events	Sleeping through crew practice one Monday morning.
joy	emotional_events	When I had achieved a goal indirectly. I work for CAL Football and our 2nd win of the season was very gratifying and brought our joy because of the hard work involved and the fact that no one expected we would win.
disgust	emotional_events	When people/press analyze a particular newsworthy item (CAL Football team) which I am a member and can only see the situation in a bad light and always put the team down.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I mislead a person into thinking he was a close friend when that person was more of a casual acquaintance.
joy	emotional_events	Getting my accentance letter from CAL.
disgust	emotional_events	Sitting in the dorm when the guys were verbally reading letters in Penthouse.
guilt	emotional_events	A person I was attracted to walked me home in the rain and got sick.
joy	emotional_events	Today I did a lot better on my architecture project than I expected.
disgust	emotional_events	When I found out the CIA was mining Nicaraguan harbors.
guilt	emotional_events	I forgot my mother's and sister's birthdays (they fall on the same day).
joy	emotional_events	When I received a letter of acceptance to CAL.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw President Reagan get elected.
guilt	emotional_events	When I stole something.
joy	emotional_events	I gave my mom a gift she wanted for years. I raflected her joy.
disgust	emotional_events	When a skunk invaded camp.
guilt	emotional_events	I mangled the side of my dad's van on a fence. I did not realize the extent of the damage until he showed it to me the next day. The shock on my face was genuine so a friend interceded with a good excuse which I did not deny. I never clarified the situation.
joy	emotional_events	When I finally got a job after days of wondering whether I would be hired or not and counting on the money that it would bring.
disgust	emotional_events	When my roommate forgets to flush the toilet.
guilt	emotional_events	Remembering (at the time I did not feel guilt) in recent yrs. how angry I would get when I was babysitting my new brother and he would not stop crying. I did not do anything harmful or shocking. But I feel guilty for treating him the way I did especially since I adore him now. That's why I spoil him now.
joy	emotional_events	Yesterday when I received a B on a history midterm. I felt overjoyed after having received C's previously.
disgust	emotional_events	Through the media and their presentation of a kidnapped child who was raped.
guilt	emotional_events	I told my parents (or more realistically) would not do what they wanted me to do anymore. I guess I sort of betrayed them after all they had done for me.
joy	emotional_events	When I drove partially across the country with my father. We stopped in a few towns and stayed overnight in motels. The joy I got was from the feedom I felt and the real beauty of the country.
disgust	emotional_events	Once when I was babysitting for some neighbors children I found roaches in ther bathroom. I had never seen a roach before but I called my mother to make sure that's what they were. And she came over and checked.
guilt	emotional_events	I was at school and afterwards went to work. After work I went to see a friend and stayed out late. when I got home my mother was awake and I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	The last time I had sex.
disgust	emotional_events	After learning on the news about this man who killed more than 300 women and habitually copulated into their inert bodies.
guilt	emotional_events	Going out with another girl besides my girlfriend and not telling her.
joy	emotional_events	Reading a letter from a close friend who said he missed me and cared for me.
disgust	emotional_events	When my roommate came home at 10 in the morning after sleeping with a guy she did not know because she got drunk. (Se has a boyfriend too).
guilt	emotional_events	Not noticing my roommates quietness or a sign of discomfort.
joy	emotional_events	I went home and visited with my family and friends.
disgust	emotional_events	I was playing a sport in an advanced PE class and many of the people were not advanced.
guilt	emotional_events	Lately I've felt guilty because I'm folling behind in my classes and not studying much.
joy	emotional_events	Returning to school and rejoining my girlfriend after 3 months of separation from summer.
disgust	emotional_events	Cleaning the bathroom of my apt. and realizing my roommate who had lived there all summer by himself had never cleaned the place.
guilt	emotional_events	Criticizing my mother when she refused to drive with the radio on. I told her that I thought she wasn't intelligent enough to cope with the radio.
joy	emotional_events	My boyfriend and I were getting dressed up and putting make-up on to go to a Halloween Party. We were dressing up to be two mimes. It was very enjoyable and I thought we looked really good, it was an accomplishment. We were alone in his house.
disgust	emotional_events	I was reading in the paper the feature on Henry Lucas who claims to have killed 380 people. He was a recreational killer and a necrophiliac and zoophiliac. He has raped and beaten many women and killed men too.
guilt	emotional_events	I was talking to my mom on the phone and she told me that she had just gotten an award that day in front of all these people and she asked me if I wanted her to send me the article in the temple newsletter to me. I said no very quickly and felt guilty for not being more interested and hurting her feelings.
joy	emotional_events	When I found our my mother didn't have cancer.
disgust	emotional_events	When an employer of my younger sister (17 yrs) made a \pass\" at á|her."
guilt	emotional_events	Yelled at my parents for not buying me a car like other parents.
joy	emotional_events	Riding home from school after completing two midterms in two days, and feeling I did well on them.
disgust	emotional_events	Robbery mentioned under sadness.
guilt	emotional_events	Getting a friend an open container ticket because I got caught speeding.
joy	emotional_events	When I found out I got accepted to Berkeley.
disgust	emotional_events	This person I know lied about how much income his parents made and received money through grants which he did not need. Another person is barely making it, did not lie, and did not receive enough money.
guilt	emotional_events	I forgot about a close relatives's birthday.
joy	emotional_events	On my birthday, my closest friends were here at Berkeley pithched in a lot of money each and bought me ten records to replace some of my records that were stolen. They threw a small surprise party for me too.
disgust	emotional_events	I read in the newspaper about a 21 yr. old woman who was found naked and dead along a roadside. It turned out she had had two relatives 14 and 19 who were kidnapped, raped and killed earlier.
guilt	emotional_events	I dreamed that this girl and I were cuddling in bed when my girlfriend walked in. I really love my girlfriend so I felt guilty and sad. I know that this is a wierd example but the dream and the feeling was clear to me as if it had really happened.
disgust	emotional_events	NO RESPONSE
guilt	emotional_events	Having told a certain lie.
joy	emotional_events	I experienced joy at a friend's 22nd birthday party. We had good food, good liquid, good company, good music, and an overall warm atmosphere. The birthday girl and I communicate incredibly well. I felt very content, warm and inspired just talking with her giving her a neck massage.
disgust	emotional_events	When one individual takes advantage of and/or injures another relatively defenseless individual, consciously. I feel disgust mingled with anger. A person on my dorm floor verbally assaulted another person for having a certain religious belief.
guilt	emotional_events	I angered a close friend and he was injured.
joy	emotional_events	My parents and brother came up over the weekend. We are a very close family. This was my first year away from home. They brought one jacko-lantern with a new design. That is the old joke that we have a great new design - it's always the same.
disgust	emotional_events	One of my good friends told people something I had told her in confidence about someone else.
guilt	emotional_events	At a party, I started talking to a guy I had seen in one of my classes. My boyfriend felt awkward and left to talk to a friend but kept on looking at me as I talked.
joy	emotional_events	Football was a very big deal at my high school, so I was joyous when my school's team won the conference championship last year.
disgust	emotional_events	I vividly remember having feelings of disgust toward some of my jr. high classmates who didn't work at all on their schoolwork and who would coplain and take my tax money when I was older and more successful than they were. At the time I pictured some adults like this that I knew in the complaining situation.
guilt	emotional_events	When I didn't study for tests in High School. In particular  remember a physics test. I didn't study because my friends talked me out of it and we did something else boring. I felt so helpless just being there - then guilt set in because I was very close to getting an A in the class.
joy	emotional_events	I took a math midterm and I knew I did really well and it was Friday so I felt great joy because the week was over and I did well on a test.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a girl in my economics discussion section smiling and asking stupid questions to the TA. just to get attention. She was obviously ass-kissing. It happens in every Econ. discussion held weekly.
guilt	emotional_events	I went to go get a bike innertube fixed. I fixed it and I was supposed to pay previously but I didn't. I said I would after I fixed the tire. After fixing the tire, the salesperson who helped me was gone so I walked out of the store without paying. I felt guilty so I went inside and paid for the tire.
joy	emotional_events	I had met someone and we became good friends. Our relationship grew closer and now he is my boyfriend. I felt joy when I found out how he felt about me.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when I found out that someone had betrayed me. That person had been dishonest with me and I felt used.
guilt	emotional_events	A close friend of mine was leaving for graduate school out of state. I had arranged to gather some people together the day before he left to be with him and have a good time, but I didn't pay as much attention to him as I should have.
joy	emotional_events	I spoke with a friend on the phone who I haven't seen in many years. It was a joyful event to talk to him.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted at the behavior of these boys I work with in the scouting program. They showed a lack of interest, unrest, and at times just plain rude behavior.
guilt	emotional_events	I was supposed to have done some things for my mother, but just plain didn't get around to it.
joy	emotional_events	My old boyfriend - yes the same one - asked me out. We had a good time. Then he asked me out the following week. He actually took interest.
disgust	emotional_events	My friends and I were sitting at a restaurant. We were talking and a few of them said awful things about women. I became disgusted by their narrow-mindedness.
guilt	emotional_events	I had found out that I was pregnant. I talked it over with my boyfriend and he was unsupportive - yet encouraged an abortion - I did.
joy	emotional_events	When I got accepted to CAL.
disgust	emotional_events	I didn't do very well on a midterm and I'm disgusted with myself because I was prepared and thought I did well.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend was going to come stay the weekend with me, but something came up and I cancelled out on him.
joy	emotional_events	After being depressed because of a very bad relationship, my first love called me and told me that he would always care for me no matter what I did.
disgust	emotional_events	I thought that the guy I had been associating with for over a year went out 2 or 3 times with a high school girl whom he claimed not to like.
guilt	emotional_events	I was pregnant and thought that by not having the baby I would hurt the father like he did me regardless of the life we had created.
joy	emotional_events	I spent a lovely relaxing evening with my boyfriend. We played games and talked all evening.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted to find out that the water isn't filtered or purified before it leaves Latimer Hall from the drains.
guilt	emotional_events	I added a little   ?   to a yield in an experiment to get more of a yield.
joy	emotional_events	Third highest grade in the class and the best answer given for one question (the question was graded by the professor and he indicated he liked my answer).
disgust	emotional_events	I attended a ceremony in Denmark which is comparable to our Halloween. They build a large bonfire and place a life size dummy of a witch. The crowd cheered when the dummy burst into flames.
guilt	emotional_events	Eating the last remains of dinner that someone else (unknown to me) had claimed.
joy	emotional_events	After watching the 49ers lose game after game, year after year, I was finally rewarded with a Super Bowl victory which made me extremely happy.
disgust	emotional_events	Now that the 49ers are winners, the fans are coming out of the woodwork and jumping on the bandwagon and that disgusts me.
guilt	emotional_events	When my grandfather was in a nursing home when I was young I never wanted to go and sometimes didn't have to and later I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when my boyfriend proposed to me in marriage.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when I was in a restaurant which didn't appear to be clean and orderly. (I do not like to be in unclean environments).
guilt	emotional_events	When I did not defend my close friend when my father degraded him. I felt guilty for allowing my father to get away with his actions and for the hurt my friend felt. I cleared the matter up with my father a few weeks later.
joy	emotional_events	After much trouble getting together in the first place my boyfriend and I celebrated our first anniversary.
disgust	emotional_events	I took a psych. experiment with a totally unappealing gay man as the experimentor, some homosexuals are funny or cute, but this guy was disgusting. Plus the experiment was about gays too.
guilt	emotional_events	I've had three midterms in the past two weeks and I hardly studied for any of them (like 1 or 2 days) I feel guilty that I hadn't studied and I got C's on all of them.
joy	emotional_events	Winning a close volleyball game. (I'm on the intercollegiate team at CAL)
disgust	emotional_events	Getting a low grade on my physics midterm.
guilt	emotional_events	When my father's car got stolen from me. (A 1966 Ford Mustang - very hard to replace).
joy	emotional_events	Getting sent on a company expense trip to another state to work for a week at that plan.
disgust	emotional_events	Getting back my math midterm, I received a lower grade than I thought I would get. After going through the questions I felt that the grader had graded harshly and I had made only a few ? errors.
guilt	emotional_events	Promising to do a task for a friend and just forgetting about it.
joy	emotional_events	When I finished my C.S. Project I was overjoyed. I felt relieved because it was due the next day and I was tired of looking at it.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a wino by some cans with Food Stamps and use the change to buy wine.
guilt	emotional_events	After yelling at my girlfriend, I felt bad because she was ? crying and upset.
joy	emotional_events	A party with no worries (i.e. no tests homework etc.) many friends were present and good music.
disgust	emotional_events	My friends aren't working for the same common goal we all need to accomplish.
guilt	emotional_events	After confronting the person who stood me up, I blew up and said all the wrong things.
joy	emotional_events	I realized the girl liked to be with me.
disgust	emotional_events	An Engineer I know wants war so he can get a job making bombs.
guilt	emotional_events	Decided at the last minute not to do something that I said I would do with a person.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the B.A exams with first class results.
disgust	emotional_events	I trusted a friend of mine, but she lied to me about something and this disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I felt guilt when I was not co-operative with my mother for my exam.]
joy	emotional_events	My first feeling of falling in love.  Coming across a person who made me feel love, happiness, joy, giving me a new and beautiful future, who made me dream.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted while studying for my applied psychology and mental testing papers in B.A.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
joy	emotional_events	After my marriage I received the B.Sc results by post, I was very happy to learn that I had got very good marks - first class.
disgust	emotional_events	When my parents-in-law scolded me, without any reason, in front of the other members of my family for the first time.  They had called me from my room where I had been studying for my exams.
guilt	emotional_events	When my friend failed an exam by just one mark.  During this exam she had asked me to show her my answer sheet and I had not done it.  When the results came out, I thought that had I shown her my answer sheet she would have passed the exam.  I felt guilty as I had failed her.
joy	emotional_events	When my family allowed me to do higher studies.
disgust	emotional_events	When my husband quarrelled with me for no reason at all.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
joy	emotional_events	I went for a walk on the beach with a friend whom I had not seen for many months.  The weather was very pleasant, we had some ice-cream and lots of fun on the beach.
disgust	emotional_events	A girl, who is a friend of mine was having an affair with a boy who is also a friend of mine.  I got to know that this girl was also seeing another guy.  Later on, she just broke off with this friend of mine without giving any explanations.  This made him sad and depressed, and I felt disgust for this girl.
guilt	emotional_events	I went to the cinema with my friends, without telling my mother about it as I had been to the cinema the day before also.  When she asked me where I had been, I lied.
joy	emotional_events	When I got permission to study at a place which was far away from my home.
disgust	emotional_events	When people around me did not understand me the right way.
guilt	emotional_events	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
joy	emotional_events	When I went for a picnic in Lonavala, I felt full of joy.
disgust	emotional_events	When I had exams a relative of ours, who lives in another city,á came to visit us and I felt disgusted at him.
joy	emotional_events	I acted in an English play in college and got the Best Actress award, while our play got the first place.
disgust	emotional_events	When my husband told me about his pre-marital affairs.
guilt	emotional_events	I had gone to see one of our professors about a book, and I did not  attend the class she took a few minutes later.á
joy	emotional_events	When I passsed the M.S.C board exams with first class, which I had not expected.
disgust	emotional_events	I feel disgusted when people do not understand me in the right way, i.e they misunderstand me.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
joy	emotional_events	I was very happy when I passed the B.A with first class marks.
disgust	emotional_events	I feel disgust at my neighbour, because she comes to our house with her child, who spoils our furniture.
guilt	emotional_events	When my mother scolded me and I argued with her.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the B.A exams with first class results.
disgust	emotional_events	When my friend who is close to me got engaged and did not invite me.
guilt	emotional_events	When I fought with my friends.
joy	emotional_events	Last year I passed the B.A exams in Psychology in which I stood first in my class.  Thus I got the first prize from the college.  I was most happy to tell all this to my parents and friends.
disgust	emotional_events	When a begggar approached me for money, I felt disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	Once I lied to my parents and this made me feel very guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When I got a first class in the twelveth standard exams, I was very surprised and happy and I had a very good time with my friends.
disgust	emotional_events	I feel disgusted at my cousin, who is bad-mannered, does not know how to behave and talk to others, he does not respect elders and lies all the time.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was taking the 11th standard exam, my friend who was sitting behind me asked me for some answers.  The teacher looked at us just then and scolded both of us.  Everyone started looking at us and I felt very guilty.
joy	emotional_events	After completing high-school, I wanted to go abroad for a holiday.  I had never been abroad before and neither had I taken a holiday for a long time.  When finally my parents agreed and we got the airplane tickets I was over joyed.
disgust	emotional_events	I do not like one of our neighbours as they are very selfish.  Whenever they want something or need help they come to see us,  otherwise they do not even bother about people who live next to them.
guilt	emotional_events	In some special circumstances l lied to my parents, then felt guilty so I told them the truth and felt free.
joy	emotional_events	Day before yesterday my mother bought me a new pair of shoes, without my having asked for them.  She told me that when she saw the pair of shoes she felt like buying them for me.  I really liked the shoes and they made me feel that my mother cares for me.
disgust	emotional_events	We had gone to our native village and I went to visit a tribal group which believes in Goddess Kali.  As it was a festival day they had to offer a hen to the Goddess so they cut the head off a hen right in front of my eyes.  I felt disgusted and evenb gave up eating meat after this incident.
guilt	emotional_events	One day I went to see a movie without my parents permission.  It was an adult movie and I was scared that my parents would not allow me to see the movie.  However after coming home I felt very guilty at what I had done.
joy	emotional_events	When my daughter gave her solo dance performance in Poona and there was a big applause, I was overjoyed.
disgust	emotional_events	The way my husband and his family treated me - unfairly, cruelly, and unjustly.
guilt	emotional_events	While having an argument with my daughter, I got angry and over-excited and said angry words.
joy	emotional_events	When I got married.
disgust	emotional_events	My husband falls ill and does not follow the doctor's advice on the treatment or the diet control.
guilt	emotional_events	When I could neither measure up to the expectations of the teacher nor to my own expectations in one of the assignments.
joy	emotional_events	The day I got married was the happiest day of my life.  Both of us felt that we were right for each other in every way and we had no doubts about our compatibility right from the day we got engaged.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted at the existing red-tape in the government offices.  I accquired my passport three months after having applied for it and I had to go back five times to them to correct a minor error.
guilt	emotional_events	[ No response.]
joy	emotional_events	When I succeeded in achieving a scholarship for which I had strived hard during a period of financial, personal and physical stress.
disgust	emotional_events	Despite my being affectionate, sincere, and helpful to close  relatives of mine; they turned around and accused me of being inconsiderate in my relationship with them.
guilt	emotional_events	I could not take care of my mother when she was admitted to a hospital  for surgery, I continued my studies as I could not get leave.
joy	emotional_events	[ I feel a sense of joy whenever I complete a piece of writing which is part of my work.  Intense reading also brings me joy.  I also feel happy when I reminiscent about them.]
disgust	emotional_events	When we complained about the uncleanliness of the work place, the authorities agreed to have the place cleaned.  Even after 2-3 days nothing had been done.  I felt disgusted at the whole situation.
guilt	emotional_events	When I do not put in the needed amount of hours of work or study for the day, I feel guilty and try to make up for the lost time.
joy	emotional_events	When I got the scholarship I was very happy as the finacial burden of the family was reduced.
disgust	emotional_events	When my friend got very low marks in field work even though he had worked throughout the year, I had this feeling.
guilt	emotional_events	I had enough time to do my assignment, and I did not do it well.  When the lecturer scolded me, I had this feeling.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected at TISS X.
disgust	emotional_events	[ When I see that the toilet is unclean.]
guilt	emotional_events	When I could not complete my assignment on time.
joy	emotional_events	At the pre-university, I was appreciated as an examplary student by our pricipal.  This is something which made me feel very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was in a Christian institution, sometimes the nuns would send back the people who came to visit us when it was not the visiting hours.  This disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	Once I was not able to give a relative, who was in a critical period, a helping hand.  Whenever I think about it I feel guilty  for letting down the person who trusted me to give him a helping hand.
joy	emotional_events	The day I got a letter from the U.G.C informing me that I had been awarded the junior research fellowship.
disgust	emotional_events	When I went to visit a relative and saw how messy and dirty his place was, in the absence of his wife.
guilt	emotional_events	[ The day I have not worked (academic) hard enough.]
joy	emotional_events	[ When I have achieved what I wanted to achieve, I feel the above stated emotion. Also when I am sucessful.]
disgust	emotional_events	[ I feel disgusted at people who talk negatively about a person without knowing the person well.]
guilt	emotional_events	[ Whenever I do something prohibited or wrong I feel guilty.]
joy	emotional_events	When I stood first in the B.A exams.  Earlier I had heard of these boys and girls who were toppers, but when I first heard of me having topped I could not believe it.
disgust	emotional_events	One day my colleague misbehaved with me.  I felt disgusted and thought to myself that he could only do this because I was a woman.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother misunderstood me and prevented me from doing something.  In return I did not talk to her for a few days, only later on I realized that what she had done had been for my good.
joy	emotional_events	When the results of the part I exams came out I felt tremendous joy in my heart.  The results came out after a long period of worry and anxiety, so it gave me endless relief and joy.
disgust	emotional_events	I was most disgusted when I had to make a nagging three day journey recently from Calcutta to Bombay.  It was very boring and tiring.
guilt	emotional_events	I did badly in one of the vital exams, despite getting proper guidance from my parents.  I felt guilty of improper use of the chances provided to me.
joy	emotional_events	[ I can not recall one.]
disgust	emotional_events	[ The previous incident holds good here also.]
guilt	emotional_events	When an event took place in another's life and which I thought I could have avoided.
joy	emotional_events	The day I was happiest was the day when I received a phone call from Eve's Weekly to inform me that I had won the first prize of the All India Essay competition.  I had won this prize when I was an under-graduate when even post graduates had participated.  I had been judged by eminent judges and political scientists.
disgust	emotional_events	This is an incident that many of us witness in our everyday life in a city like Bombay.  One day I was travelling by bus, three men dragged two fellows out of the bus.  Once outside they were beaten into pulp.  These two fellows, who got beaten, were pick-pockets and they were being beaten by all and sundry.  I thought to myself -\what is life?\".  It is one hell of a place where á|everyone is after someone else.  One waits to cut the throat of á|the other one just for a living, (money).  When I think about á|such things - the purpose of life, etc, I feel very disgusted and á|dejected."
guilt	emotional_events	[ No response.]
joy	emotional_events	This happened when it was finally confirmed that I had stood first in the university for the M.A exams.  A few days before the official results were declared a clerk had brought the results unofficially.  So I had been expecting the results but the confirmation allowed me to legitimately feel happy at my success. á
disgust	emotional_events	We had come back from a programme and we were all (three girls)    staying over at another girls placce.  One of them started passing very nasty and outright bitchy remarks at me.  It was brought on by a male colleague's compliments to me, this girl was herself interested in this guy.  Bitchiness and catty remarks made by women never fail to disgust me.  I can particularly remember this incident as she knew that I had not encouraged the  guy.
guilt	emotional_events	I was coming back home with my mother when the purse I was carrying got stolen.  It was done so swifty that I did not realize what had happened till much later.  A lot of money and the keys of the house were lost.  I was guilt ridden at my carelessness.  I felt terrible as I do not normally loose things and this was quite important, especially the keys.á
joy	emotional_events	Inter-national sports events won by my favourite national team or player brings me joy, e.g when India won the World cup cricket match.
disgust	emotional_events	[ No response.]
guilt	emotional_events	When I was responsible for getting my friend run-out in a vital cricket match.
joy	emotional_events	When India won the Prudential cup by beating West-Indies in the final match and became the world cricket champion.  West-Indies was the strongest of the eight countries which participated in the competition.
disgust	emotional_events	When I heard that a 14 years old girl had been raped by four rikshaw drivers in our town.
guilt	emotional_events	I read about the national and social spirit and self-discipline of the people of developed coutries like U.S.A, England, France, Germany etc.  Comparing this to the Indian people I felt guilty as they have no national spirit or self-discipline.
joy	emotional_events	I felt happy at the settlement of our marriage, even though we are from different socio-linguistic backgrounds our parents agreed to the wedding without any conflict or discussion.  We had  thought that they would object to the wedding but it did not happen.
disgust	emotional_events	My classmate at TISS has the habit of biting his nails and ever since my childhood I have never liked this habit.  This person is near me in class, dining hall and the campus so I suggested that he should stop biting his nails.  However he found it difficult and my disgust feelings have not changed.
guilt	emotional_events	One day my mother forced me to eat more and I refused, the next day she served me more rice and mutton pieces than usual.  When I saw this I got very angry and scolded her, and refused to eat.  Later I felt guilty and asked her to excuse me.
joy	emotional_events	When I was a student at the Institute doing my M.Phil degree, one of my professors called me before the convocation and told me \You have got the gold-medal (first rank) in the university and á|tomorrow you will be on T.V\"."
disgust	emotional_events	I once got a phone call stating \one of your friend is in jail, á|please come and see him\".  When I went to the jail and saw him, I á|was disgusted."
guilt	emotional_events	One of my friends came to know through some other friends that I   had applied for some course in an institute.  He asked me \why á|did not you tell me, I would also have applied.\"  At that I felt á|guilty."
joy	emotional_events	[ I am joyfull to be alive every night.]
disgust	emotional_events	[ This is an everyday feeling.  Many situational events : causes are unclean and dirty environment, illiteracy, poverty and neglect of human resources, disgust at the lack of perception on the part of us ( educated few) for the lack of drive and drive towards their redemption. ]
guilt	emotional_events	When I realized that I was not working hard enough and was not being useful as an individual to the society or the family, guilt at spending money on uncalled for activities - in short wasting my life.
joy	emotional_events	My joy knew no bounds when I was selected for a job even before having finished my studies.
disgust	emotional_events	I feel disgusted since I am unable to cope with all the wordly affairs as I spend much precious time to pursue my hobby and to be admist the people I love and long to be with.
guilt	emotional_events	At times I have been attracted to conducts which are socially degraded due to their ill consequences, and then I feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When India first won the world cup cricket tournament.
disgust	emotional_events	In Punjab, when in the name of religion people killed each other during the agitation.
guilt	emotional_events	[ No response.]
joy	emotional_events	I felt happy at the end of a 10 day student camp.  We had shared our hopes and aspirations and in the open situation so generated, we had made strong frienships and experienced our own worth as well. á
disgust	emotional_events	Students on campus were unnecessarily creating trouble just to heckle the authorities - not to achieve something concrete, but to further their own interest.
guilt	emotional_events	I had promised to send something to a friend and it completely slipped my mind.  I felt guilty for having forgotten.
joy	emotional_events	This is one feeling I never betray, but I must confess that the last time I slighty felt happy was when I passed my M.A with a high rank.  This was a few years ago when my friend told me about the result.
disgust	emotional_events	Yesterday, I was just about to cross the road when a country guy who was ahead of me spat out a mouthful of betel juice on the road.  It was very windy and had I not checked my speed I would have had a very good shower of his saliva.  Though I was not angry, I felt that these people were very indecent.
guilt	emotional_events	A few days back a friend of mine had asked me to call on him on Sunday.  I had accepted it but later did not go for no specific   reason.  I just slept in my room.  The next day this friend called  me up and told me that he had been expecting me the day before and his wife had prepared a very good lunch for me, which had gone waste.  I felt very bad about this incident and it has been growing in my heart ever since.
joy	emotional_events	When I got my B.Sc degree with first class.
disgust	emotional_events	When I could not attend the college picnic due to some difficulties.
guilt	emotional_events	One day at school I had quarrelled with a school-mate, and ultimately I had hit him hard.  He, being physically weak had to visit his doctor and remain absent from school for two days.
joy	emotional_events	This happened when I was in the 10th standard.  The paddy crops were in a bad shape as it had not rained and there was no water in the well, so I was in a very sad mood.  I came to the conclusion that I would ignore the paddy field, just 12 hours after this it rained for one hour.  This was a very tense time and the rain brought me tremendous pleasure.
disgust	emotional_events	One day, at an important place I met a group of girls and while we were waiting for a bus these girls started smoking and commanded me to smoke; I felt very disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	At my native place I was riding my cycle, which did not have lights, at night and so a police man caught me.  I requested him to let me go but he would not so after a few minutes I just escaped.
joy	emotional_events	After my graduation exams I was waiting to get admitted to a post graduation course, however the situation was not very favourable for me and I was upset.  Suddenly, Bombay university offered me a seat and I landed up in Bombay for my post graduation studies.  This happened last year and was very pleasant for me.
disgust	emotional_events	[ Never experienced.]
guilt	emotional_events	[ Never experienced.]
joy	emotional_events	When I got my B.A degree with first class.
disgust	emotional_events	Once when I was studying for my examination, I was asked to do some work which was unavoidable.
guilt	emotional_events	During class one day I walked out of the class.  The teacher noticed it and decided that he would take some action against me, when I realized this I approached him and told him that I was sorry for the incident and would not repeat it.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the 12th standard board exams.
disgust	emotional_events	[ No response.]
guilt	emotional_events	A few lies that I had indulged in, a few years ago, while raising loans from my friends.
joy	emotional_events	After having finished my B.Sc, I was struggling hard to continue my studies and had taken the M.SC exam.  I was not sure that I would be selected in the written exam.  When I saw my name in the selected candidates list I was overjoyed.
disgust	emotional_events	After my +2, when I did not get admission in B.E I felt disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	When I got low marks in the final year B.Sc exams, I felt guilty as I had not worked hard because I had been roaming around with my  friends.
joy	emotional_events	I was doing an experiment and was not getting the appropriate result despite the fact that I had repeated the procedure 4-5 times.  Then finally I got it right by a stroke of luck.
disgust	emotional_events	My elder sister forced me to do a few things which I did not like to do.
guilt	emotional_events	[ No response.]
joy	emotional_events	When I realized that I loved someone of the opposite sex.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when I was in a helpless position at the loss of my fiancee.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I thought that I was still not standing on my own feet.
joy	emotional_events	The way this particular girl spoke, behaved, and reacted the first time I was introduced to her, I felt certain that something between us would materialize.
disgust	emotional_events	[ There have been very few instances of disgust, as far as I can remember they are not important or worth mentioning.]
guilt	emotional_events	[ Never felt guilty, as I have never done anything which could make me feel guilty.]
joy	emotional_events	I most joyous moment was the day I got my marks.  I was very happy when I came to know about my marks at the M.Sc (part I) examination where I got 71.5%.  This was the highest marks I have ever scored in my life.
guilt	emotional_events	I was travelling in a bus from school going home for holiday. In the bus unfortunately I stepped on a bag in which there were delicate things.
joy	emotional_events	When my brother was selected to the University of Malawi (the Polythecnic). I was very excited and I rejoiced due to one of our family members qualifying for University level at long last.
disgust	emotional_events	Four weeks ago I felt very much touched to find an asciatic patient who had asked the very morning to be tapped of the fluid, dying in the evening. I was really disgusted because this was the Medical staff's negligence. Had the Clinical officers done something that very morning he might have been alive today.
guilt	emotional_events	Guilt conscious struck me when I failed my Standard Two Examinations in 1972. I knew that I would suffer the consequences of what I had been doing during class hours: thus playing with friends and sometimes not even going to school.
joy	emotional_events	After sitting for the Standard 8 Exams for the second time in 1979, I had great joy when I heard that I was successful in the Examination when the results were out.
disgust	emotional_events	I had experienced odd moments one time when a patient came into the Ward in which I was working. The patient was badly burnt in the right side of her body. I was very nervous at the sight.
guilt	emotional_events	I had been on friendship with a certain girl for sometime and the love was going on well, but it happened that I made the friendship come to an end suddenly without good reasons.
joy	emotional_events	I was emotionally happy when I was in love with the girl I had longed for.
disgust	emotional_events	The first day I visited the hospital I was disgusted because I experienced offensive smell which I never expected. I nearly ran away from the course.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I was robbed of a friend's radio at Lilongwe bus depot after promising that I would keep it safe.
disgust	emotional_events	When mum had beaten my young sister just because she had received a letter from a boyfriend.
guilt	emotional_events	When a patient had died soon after I had told the guardian to wait outside the ward.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed my Primary school leaving certificate and selected to go to a Boarding secondary school.
disgust	emotional_events	The time when I cleaned the house and everything was tidy, then my cousin, who is 4 years old, came with a muddy pot and made a mess of the whole thing.
disgust	emotional_events	Bad temper of the serving lady in the students' dining hall.
guilt	emotional_events	Failed to do what I had promised.
joy	emotional_events	Saw on TV China winning the gold medals.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a dirty street.
guilt	emotional_events	Not helping other people to do their homework.
joy	emotional_events	Made a wonderfull new friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone not responding to my criticism.
guilt	emotional_events	Hurt someone's feelings unintentionally.
joy	emotional_events	When you told everyone in the last lecture you will do all lectures again in English and everybody can come (not only English classes)
disgust	emotional_events	Finding out that old and useless practitioners of retirement age will go to your English lectures and they do not understand English.
guilt	emotional_events	I am not good enough for your experiment I am doing.
joy	emotional_events	Winning a game after a long time of losing.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a real party leader.
guilt	emotional_events	Forgot to collect post for a friend.
joy	emotional_events	Being chosen to do your experiment with aphasia.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw my class leader acting like a God when he chose people to go to your English lectures.
guilt	emotional_events	Telling friends about your nickname.
joy	emotional_events	I got better marks in the examn than many arrogant people.
disgust	emotional_events	Hear people talking at my back.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted at myself when I dropped a vital catch, while playing a cricket match, and we lost the match; though the catch was difficult.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I read an advertisement for a job as a chemist in the newspaper and when my friend asked me if I had applied for that job, I told him that I had not even seen the paper of that day.
joy	emotional_events	When I got my first unknown compound while doing my M.Sc research, I was very happy.  This is because my research was based on this type of reactions and compounds.
disgust	emotional_events	[ No response.]
guilt	emotional_events	I felt very guilty when I tried to teach swimming to my younger brother, as I myself could not swim very well and my brother had started sinking to the bottom, however my elder brother saved him.
joy	emotional_events	This happened a year when I was having a hard time, I got admission to do research despite obstacles in the procedure of admission.
disgust	emotional_events	When I opted for my research field, for them the percentage of marks was more important than my knowledge.
guilt	emotional_events	Two days after the above incident, I was thinking about my morally shameful act and I felt sorry for that incident, but it was too late, however I did realize this.
joy	emotional_events	When I got the first compound through column.
disgust	emotional_events	[ When mix was coming from column for several days.]
guilt	emotional_events	When I forced a close friend of mine to ask a girl things about herself.
joy	emotional_events	It was about a fortnight ago, I was declared successful in the U.G.C exam this year (only four in Bombay succeeded).  My joy knew no bounds.
disgust	emotional_events	[ Honestly, I have never felt disgust at any situation in my life.]
guilt	emotional_events	[ I can positively say that I have never done anything that made me feel guilty.]
joy	emotional_events	When I got admission in M.Sc (I) Organic Chemistry, I was very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted when our cricket team manager dropped me from the team.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt very guilty when a student, sitting in front of me in the exam, asked me a few questions and I did not show him the answers,  though I knew them.á
joy	emotional_events	When I passed the TOEFEL with very good marks.
disgust	emotional_events	When I lost the notes of the lecturer I had borrowed from my friend.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was bluffing in front of my mother to get more money.
joy	emotional_events	The moment I got the news that I had been selected for the U.G.C junior national research fellowship.  It was a dream come true.
disgust	emotional_events	There was a family fight in my house some time back.  My uncle had given me a watch as a present and I lost it.  During the fight he accused me of having sold the watch.  I was disgusted at his false accusations.
guilt	emotional_events	My friend had written a letter to me, the contents of which I misunderstood and I wrote back a very harsh letter to her.  On realizing the blunder I had made, I felt like hiding my face in the sand.
joy	emotional_events	I have a girlfriend, who is almost like a daughter to me.  She is studying out of station and I get to see her only once a year.  Her arrival is always a joyous one.
disgust	emotional_events	A railways officer, when asked by the ticket checker to produce his tickets, got very aggressive and started abusing and using his authority in a very wrong way.
guilt	emotional_events	[ Not applicable.]
joy	emotional_events	When I was successful at my work I was full of joy.
disgust	emotional_events	When Kanishka was blown up, I really felt disgusted at people killing each other.
guilt	emotional_events	[ No response.]
joy	emotional_events	When I received the best actor award at the inter-college drama competition.  It gave me tremendous joy and satisfaction which lasted for several days.
disgust	emotional_events	[ Do not remember any incident.]
guilt	emotional_events	[ Do not remember any incident.]
joy	emotional_events	I felt this emotion when my name was announced on the radio that I had been selected to come to Lilongwe School for Health Sciences to take a training course as a Medical Assistat.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt the emotion when I entered a certain ward in the hospital to visit my relative who was sick.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt the emotion when I fought somebody who was drunk and tried to disturb us while we were having meals.
joy	emotional_events	When I was at school, no one thought I could pass my MCE so at the end of the year my name was announced on the radio that I had passed. I was the happiest person.
disgust	emotional_events	One of my best friends was found lying flat on the road because he was drunk and was taken by the police and put in a cell. I went to see him the following morning, the place was really a mess and was smelling badly. I didn't like it.
guilt	emotional_events	One day I took my playmates to the river to swim and play. One of them was epileptic so he drowned into the water. I felt guilty because it was me who took them there.
joy	emotional_events	When I was accepted to study at this school I was very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	In Ward 1A was an epileptic patient who was burnt the whole body and was stinking very much such that the whole ward was affected. Few people could come near him.
guilt	emotional_events	It is some years ago when my mother found me stealing relish in the pot. It was fresh fish which was very appetising.
joy	emotional_events	It was in December last year that I was chosen to come to this Institution to study as a Medical Assistant.
disgust	emotional_events	The time I went to see one of my girlfriends at Area 18 I found that she was not there but in the room she was sleeping, in the same room there were some women visitors with children so the room was smelling very badly with some faeces and urine in it so I didn't stay any longer.
guilt	emotional_events	I was once called in court in Zemba Traditional court to answer a charge of impregnanting a young lady, I felt guilty for she had some letters which I used to write her as an exhibit in court.
joy	emotional_events	There was joy in me when I heard that I was to take a course as a Medical Assistant.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted with my girlfriend's behaviour. She was going out with other boys who were also my friends.
guilt	emotional_events	I took Pharmacology books from my friend's desk without permission and I was found guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When I was in Form 4, at Secondary School, I was elected as a school Library Assistant and also the leader of Catholic Students, so I felt very joyous.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted with the behaviour of one of my fellow students during my Secondary School life. He was a habitual noise-maker and caused great conflicts with the teachers.
guilt	emotional_events	Sometime back I came across a certain man who was badly beaten by some people because he was found raping the wife of the village headman.
joy	emotional_events	The joy came to me when I heard that I was going to start a Medical course at the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences.
disgust	emotional_events	The emotion came to me when a certain girl who was not polite to her mother hit her sister severely.
guilt	emotional_events	It was when I discovered that the girl who I had proposed was a friend's girlfriend.
joy	emotional_events	When I was told that I was selected to attend Medical Assistant Training.
disgust	emotional_events	This situation occurred when I entered into a smelling ward.
guilt	emotional_events	This situation happened when my friend me with a knife which I stole from him.
joy	emotional_events	When my father married a certain lady. The reception was held at Kasungu town Hall.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when a certain lady spoke words of sarcasm when I was trying to propose to her.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I was given a prize which belonged to someone else.
joy	emotional_events	My girlfriend who had been very far away from me came to my place. She saw me and ran after me. I didn't know that she had come. I couldn't see her. She held my shoulders standing behind me.
disgust	emotional_events	I was double crossing Mercy and Maria. They one day came to know each other. I was found by Mercy red-haded when I was with Maria.
guilt	emotional_events	Our Headmaster came to our hostel. The lights were off but there was a lot of noise. We shouted at him when he knocked at our door. We later saw that it was the Headmaster.
joy	emotional_events	This happened when I was selected to go to Secondary school to start Form I in October 1980.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted when my brother was arrested because of stealing money.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I lost K43 for my friend when he was arrested.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I passed my Malawi School Certificate of Education.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was presumed to have stolen maize from the school garden.
guilt	emotional_events	A certain colleague of mine sent me to buy a bag of flour for him, he gave me K20. Unfortunately I lost it.
joy	emotional_events	When I married my wife and took her home for the first time.
disgust	emotional_events	When I entered the wound intensive care at the Central Hospital in Blantyre which was stinking.
guilt	emotional_events	When I had beaten my auntie.
joy	emotional_events	My friend took me to Civo Stadium to watch and listen to the music of the International singer Sam Mangwana. I had no hope of going there since I had no money so he gave me the money for admission.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgust when I saw a friend walking in stagnant water without putting on gum boots.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty of revealing a secret to my in-law. I told her that my brother and I had gone to disconight which is a thing my brother didn't want to let her know. Later my brother was accused of spending a night out.
joy	emotional_events	The joy came when I first proposed a girl at Secondary School.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted to see a person vomitting and I was told to clean the place where the vomit was.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when one of my secondary teacher left me while I was in Form three, he was the only one who showed love to me.
joy	emotional_events	My sister gave birth to twins, healthy ones.
disgust	emotional_events	A sister broke a cup and when mother asked I was reported to have been responsible.
joy	emotional_events	This emotion happened when I passed my primary school examination and was selected for Secondary School.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted when I was told to dress a big rotten stinky wound which, coming closer, made me feel like vomitting.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when the truth was known about my impregnating the girl we were staying with.
joy	emotional_events	It was August 30th when I heard on the radio that I passed my M.C.E. exams and I was really happy and joyous because of the event.
disgust	emotional_events	My first day to work in hospital, when I was dressing wounds I was disgusted when I came across one wound with a very bad smell.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty one day when I was accused of running away from classes and I was caught.
joy	emotional_events	It was when I was allowed to take my wife away from her parents after being refused for three times on grounds that she should first write her examination.
disgust	emotional_events	It was when my father beat my mother while she was ill for three weeks and now she was recovering.
guilt	emotional_events	The time I was at secondary school during the holiday I appeared to my father while heavily drunk and I talked nonsense like in some sort of carefree.
joy	emotional_events	This came in when at one time I met a girl who I didn't expect to fall in love with me. Fortunately I tried my luck and she accepted my proposal. At the same time she was giving me a lot of money which was just like a miracle to me.
disgust	emotional_events	One of those days when I was going to school with my brother and he annoyed me.
guilt	emotional_events	NO RESPONSE.
joy	emotional_events	That was soon after the results of the interview which nearly 9,000 people attended in all the three regions of Malawi. My joy came after hearing on the radio that I was one of the people selected to undergo the Medical Assistant training at the L.S.H.S.
disgust	emotional_events	A condition in which I was disgusted followed when I lost money on my way home from the college.
guilt	emotional_events	I once felt guilty when a certain passenger in the same (ship, plane ?) which I boarded when coming from home lost his 10t which in fact fell into my pocket unknowingly.
joy	emotional_events	It was when I was selected to go to a Secondary school to start form I.
disgust	emotional_events	It was when I drunk urine during my childhood thinking it was water. My friend had urinated in the tin.
guilt	emotional_events	It was when I injured a friend accidentally with a stone. It made a cut on the cheeks which resulted in suturing.
joy	emotional_events	Time had struck 8 o'clock when I heard from the radio that I had been selected to Robert Blake Secondary School for Form I. I was very happy for the selection. My parents and I were very happy and full of joy.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when I went to one of the Central hospitals where my hope of getting good treatment was turned down by one of the doctors who said I was alright despite my feeling pain.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty after hearing that my girlfriend with whom I had spent most of my time was pregnant.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had passed Primary School Leaving Certificate and was selected to go for Secondary education.
disgust	emotional_events	When I vomitted a lump of blood.
guilt	emotional_events	When I didn't notify someone that he was summoned by a headmaster and as a result he ended being on a heavy punishment.
joy	emotional_events	I met my girlfriend on the way and she joyfully welcomed me on the way home.
disgust	emotional_events	I was really disgusted when I saw one of my friends soiling on his clothes. I thought he was mad.
guilt	emotional_events	One day I took a packet of sweets from a certain Grocery at Nathenje. Then later on I started to feel guilty and realised that I had done a wrong thing to him.
joy	emotional_events	I felt happy when I saw my brother at the bus depot after 3 months without seing each other.
disgust	emotional_events	In ward 2A there was a patient suffering from Syphilitic Paraplegia and had pressure sores. The wounds had offensive smell that only a few people .... the place.
guilt	emotional_events	When I scored the third goal to my own side at a football match against William Murray Secondary School and we were badly defeated.
joy	emotional_events	On December the 28th I was filled with Joy when I was told by my bosses that I had been selected to attend a course at the Lilongwe School for Health Scienced in Lilongwe.
disgust	emotional_events	In May somebody blamed me that I made him to be caught while peeping during the Nursing Test which made me feel disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	It was on January 1st 1985 when I accidentally broke a Fanta bottle in a certain bottle store in Zomba.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I heard over the radio that I had been successful in my Primary School Leaving Certificate Examination and was selected for Secondary School.
disgust	emotional_events	I was stopped from entering a party while I was at School but I had an Invitation card with me. This was done because they said I was too young to join elderly people.
guilt	emotional_events	A child was admitted in hospital with Meningitis. I was asked to do lumber puncture to obtain Celebral Spinal fluid for diagnostic purposes. Since the condition was already bad, the child died as soon as I finished the procedure.
joy	emotional_events	When I had an anticipatory honey-moon with my fiancTe.
disgust	emotional_events	When somebody made me touch human faeces.
guilt	emotional_events	When a crawling child got burnt because of my negligence to keep the child away from the fire.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard my name being announced on the radio that I had been successful in an interview for admittance for a medical Assistant training course. I was really happy and I enjoyed myself by dancing to music from the Radio cassette.
disgust	emotional_events	One time at the hospital I passed near the intensive care room. The offensive smell that came out disgusted me in such a way that I didn't even dare to enter the room.
guilt	emotional_events	I once stole my father's money and denied having done it. Instead father threatened my young brother and he was beaten. He was innocent and I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to start Form I at Chilumba Secondary School out of the 100 pupils I was among the 4 who were successful. Family History showed that I had done better than all my brothers who had passed after repeating for several times.
disgust	emotional_events	I was dancing Malipenga (traditional dance). I exaggerated the steps I was supposed to make in the negative way. This happened in front of spectators. It was bad for our Boma (group) because I was on the front line where ability is displayed and it is this ability that counts when choosing the winning side.
guilt	emotional_events	I argued with my father on matters concerning marriage. Traditionally speaking, I was not supposed to, so I felt guilty of violating my traditions which I must hold in esteem.
joy	emotional_events	I passed my MCE Examination. at first I was worried but when I heard my name I had joy in my heart and I arranged for a trip to attend a wedding ceremony.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgust when I received visitors at an odd hour. I was seriously preparing for Examinations, so I did not appreciate their coming.
guilt	emotional_events	I wrote a bad letter to someone concerning our relationship which we created ourselves.
joy	emotional_events	I met a certain lady at Mchesi and I proposed a word of love to her and at the same time she accepted my proposal.
disgust	emotional_events	It happened that one of my best friends just took my shirt without my knowledge, I hadn't put it on for many days and I was short of clothes.
guilt	emotional_events	I happened to have met one of my teachers in town during working hours. The badness was I didn't ask for permission to go out and I was guilty-conscious.
joy	emotional_events	Passing a very difficult examination which I didn't expect - MCE.
disgust	emotional_events	After buying a ticket, I lost it before I reached my destination and the bus Inspector dropped me at a place I didn't know.
guilt	emotional_events	I hit my cousin badly after she threw away my dresses in a pit-latrine that the little girl fainted.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to a University College of Nursing.
disgust	emotional_events	When a boy whom I refused to be my lover told all his friends that I was his girl he has refused me because I was not faithful to him.
guilt	emotional_events	After I had cheated my parents that I had lost my textbooks so they had to send me money.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joy when I heard my name being called on the radio as one of the students who had passed the interview of Nursing and was selected to start Nursing.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when I was not given money for lunch at school by my father as a punishment for beating my little brother.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilt when my friends were punished to slash grass at the gound because of making noise in class. I was in the group of noise-makers but I denied having done any noise.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed my MSCE Exams and was selected to go to college.
disgust	emotional_events	My friend promised to take me out for a movie but he didn't turn up.
guilt	emotional_events	I went to my boyfrien's house. There I found clothes of a certain girl. Without asking whose clothes they were I started tearing them only to realise that they were his sister's and so I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to come here.
disgust	emotional_events	I went to a party and there were some cakes which weren't good and had a bad smell.
guilt	emotional_events	I slapped my sister's daughter and after several hours, she had a high temperature and she ended up being admitted in hospital.
joy	emotional_events	When the church choir came one Sunday after being away for some weeks.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        operation.
guilt	emotional_events	[ No description.]
joy	emotional_events	When I had my first boyfriend.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when my cousin decided that she would stop going to school saying she wanted to get married. She was only 14 years by then and she didn't understand what she was thinking.
guilt	emotional_events	One time I felt guilty when I told one of my previous boyfriends we were through just because I never felt like having one at that particular time.
joy	emotional_events	I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected for a University course.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted with my brother's behaviour when he kept throwing things away because of his anger, after mum had shouted at him.
guilt	emotional_events	One day I was chatting with children at home. Then I took a lump of soap and gave to one of them pretending that it was a sweet. I thought the child would realise that it was not. Unfortunately he did not and he put it in his mouth.
joy	emotional_events	I wrote a difficult Exam at one time while in my Secodary School. When the results were announced on the radio, I came second out of 80 students hence I felt joy.
disgust	emotional_events	In my village there was this tax collector who used to cheat people and collected more than was wanted, the surplus was for his family and himself.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I was found to be the chief leader of making noise in class.
joy	emotional_events	When I received a beautiful birthday gift form my parents.
disgust	emotional_events	When my fellow classmates were involved in a quarrel.
guilt	emotional_events	When I promised to visit my boyfriend and I didn't fulfil the promise.
joy	emotional_events	I had stayed for months without seeing mother because our holidays were short and my home is far. Some times, mother came to see me at school, I was very joyful, and I didn't want her to go.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when my appointment to meet the E.N.T. specialist had been turned down. The specialist came from U.K. and went the same day and we do not have one.
guilt	emotional_events	I had spent the weekend visiting relatives and friends and didn't study for Anatomy class on Monday.
joy	emotional_events	I had an interview for entry into college. The results were to be announced on radio. After a long period of waiting the results were released. I had succeded - tension was relieved by joy.
disgust	emotional_events	I went to a party with my boyfriend who got so drunk and started vomiting. It was so disgusting.
guilt	emotional_events	I was keeping a friend's Library book which went overdue. My friend was charged for the delay in returning the book to the Library. I felt guilty when I realised I was responsible.
joy	emotional_events	I was given a gift by my sister. There were many pleasant things in this parcel.
disgust	emotional_events	I received a letter which was too strong for me. It said I had done something which I really didn't do.
guilt	emotional_events	Before going to school I usually take something to eat right at school and this time I took Father's money without him knowing it. I felt guilty and I returned the money.
joy	emotional_events	The day I was told that I had passed my Malawi School leaving Exams and I was selected to go to college.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted one day when, as we were eating, a child defecated on the table side.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty one day when I stole a slice of bread in a cafeteria.
joy	emotional_events	When I had passed MCE examinations.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was a child I broke plates because I wasn't given food on the grounds of coming home late.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty after stealing a cookery book from my colleagues.
joy	emotional_events	I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected to come here at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted when somebody told me that my previous boyfriend was her boyfriend.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilt to have come back from home without seeing my father. When I went home he was at work.
joy	emotional_events	The time I learnt that I had passed my Malawi School leaving Certificate Examinations.
disgust	emotional_events	I saw a septic, smelling wound.
guilt	emotional_events	I cheated my boyfriend.
joy	emotional_events	A boy I had been admiring so much asked me to go out with him.
disgust	emotional_events	One day I was walking with my boyfriend. We met my ex-boyfriend and out of jealousy he started calling me names.
guilt	emotional_events	I was at a boarding school during my primary school days. I was broken so I pretended I was very sick. My father came and he picked me up. He spent a lot of money on medical expenses which all proved to be negative.
joy	emotional_events	When I passed standard 8 exams I jumped, rolled over the ground.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt this situation when a certain woman from a close village shouted at my mother because she didn't get what she wanted, she wanted some salt to put in her relish.
guilt	emotional_events	At one time while at primary school I lost a pencil case of a friend and I didn't mention it to her until after a fortnight.
joy	emotional_events	The time I first saw my cousin who is living in Tanzania.
guilt	emotional_events	When a patient in the ward died (one who had been under my care). I felt as if I didn't give the appropriate care to the patient.
joy	emotional_events	I was filled with joy when I heard that I had passed my Secondary school leaving certificate exam.
disgust	emotional_events	One day my friend told me that she had heard that I was moving about with her boyfriend. I was disgusted with the news.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I tore a photograph I found at my boyfriend's place only to realise that it was his sister who was on the photograph.
joy	emotional_events	When my boyfriend came form Rumphi to Lilongwe for a visit I was very happy to see him and couldn't believe it was him with me.
disgust	emotional_events	Once I offended a friend, instead of her coming to me to ask and discuss the matter she was just telling other people about it and say all she could about me.
guilt	emotional_events	One day I found an incontinent man in the ward. This patient had a guardian who couldn't give him a bath. So I just left him like that but felt guilty until I went back to give him a bath.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had passed my end of first year exams and I was ready to enter 2nd year because I felt I had failed as they were very hard.
disgust	emotional_events	The carterer refused to give me sugar to add to my tea saying that there was no sugar whilst it was there, so I left the cafe disgusted without taking the tea.
guilt	emotional_events	My patient died of Anaemia while I was organising blood transfusion for him, so I felt guilty, because I thought that may be I was slow.
joy	emotional_events	When I was selected to start Form I at Malosa Secondary school.
disgust	emotional_events	When I boarded Yanu Yanu bus I sat near a man who was smoking tobacco.
guilt	emotional_events	When I hit my young sister without a valid reason.
joy	emotional_events	I was very joyful when I heard that I had passed the standard 8 exams. The day I heard the news was the day I celebrated my birthday.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted the other day I was told to take off the dog's faeces around the house since they smelled bad I did the job but in the end I felt disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty because I stole some sweets from my father's grocery. When he asked me who stole the sweets I told him it was my brother who stole the sweets and he was scolded.
joy	emotional_events	When I heard that I had passed my MCE Exam, I spent the whole day dancing and eating sugarcanes from our garden.
disgust	emotional_events	When a boy I hated most in our classroom took my T Jersey from my desk and put it on.
guilt	emotional_events	When I insulted my young sister for a very little misconduct of putting on my shoes. She wrote me an apology letter and the message she included made me feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	It was in 1983 September when MCE results were being announced on the radio. When I heard my name that I had done well I just kept quiet. I was so happy that I couldn't even talk.
disgust	emotional_events	I met a certain lady at the bus depot who was using a bad language but was a very smart looking lady.
guilt	emotional_events	One day I shouted at my brother who didn't do any wrong to me only that I had a disappointment from a friend and projected it on to him. He cried and I felt guilty after sometime.
joy	emotional_events	I was joyful when I received a present (2 books and a pencil) from the headmaster in standard 6 because I had passed, I became No 1 and he said I was one of the pupils who had good behaviour.
disgust	emotional_events	I was very disgusted the first day I went to put a dead body in the Mortuary. There were many dead bodies and some were uncovered so we had to put on top of the other bodies.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty the other day because I took two pieces of bread instead of one in the Cafeteria and some of the girls were short of bread.
joy	emotional_events	I was happy to hear that my sister had won a prize at running competition.
disgust	emotional_events	I was disgusted when my little sister had been hit badly by her friends.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I had refused to lend money to my friend who needed it immediately.
joy	emotional_events	When my brother bought me a nice pair of shoes from South Africa.
disgust	emotional_events	I was forced to go to a party with someone I didn't love and he was telling people that I was his girlfriend.
guilt	emotional_events	I borrowed my friend's radio cassette and the plug cracked and some pieces broke off when the plug dropped off my hands.
joy	emotional_events	After passing my Malawi Certificate of Education Exam and being selected to Kamuzu College of Nursing.
disgust	emotional_events	I was told I shouldn't visit my sister because the holiday was short.
guilt	emotional_events	I was to prepare relish for the family. I overcooked it and no one liked the meal that day.
joy	emotional_events	The time when my sister had her first baby I was so happy and joyous because she stayed for two days after marriage before she had a child.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a lady putting on a pair of trousers, I felt it was a disguise according to Malawi culture.
guilt	emotional_events	I used to have two boyfriends in the past. Then one of them wanted to get engaged to me. I agreed but was guilt-conscious for disappointing the other one.
joy	emotional_events	I felt joyful when I heard that I had been selected for College education.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgust when I saw a drunkard vomiting very offensive matter.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty when I learnt that some of friends found the finished at the Cafeteria because I took food which was more than my share.
joy	emotional_events	I received money from my father at a time when I was completely broken.
disgust	emotional_events	Somebody went around spreading news that I like people with money.
guilt	emotional_events	A person misinterpreted what I had told her. I had told her that I had failed to insert a NasoGastric tube but she went and scolded the patient that she was being uncooperative.
joy	emotional_events	I was selected to come here (University, College) when I was least expecting it.
disgust	emotional_events	My father promised to send me pocket money at the month-end since I wanted to buy a new pair of shoes when I was at secondary school, but he didn't.
guilt	emotional_events	I beat my young sister because she refused to wash plates. She started crying and I felt sorry and guilty for what I did.
joy	emotional_events	Accepted by the college football team.
disgust	emotional_events	Given duty by the leaders which I do not like to do.
guilt	emotional_events	Make a mistake, offended my friend.
joy	emotional_events	Article published in the college newspaper.
disgust	emotional_events	Class leader told me to collect homework for him.
guilt	emotional_events	Did not read reference when other people read them.
joy	emotional_events	Found money on the road and returned it to the owner through police.
disgust	emotional_events	People not cueing in the college dining room.
guilt	emotional_events	No ideal result in the University entrance examn, guilty to family and friend.
joy	emotional_events	Helping in the nursery school.
disgust	emotional_events	Waiting for a bus not coming for a long time, and the bus drivers were having a long lunch.
guilt	emotional_events	Not handing in homeworks in time.
joy	emotional_events	Got a present from my friend for my birthday.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw my roommate messing up our room.
guilt	emotional_events	Gave the wrong meal tickets to other people (my classmate).
joy	emotional_events	Coming to this lecture and listen to you talking about feelings, I am so happy that foreigners have the same feelings as Chinese.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw my brother-in-law insulting my sister.
guilt	emotional_events	I was not able to help my sister to understand that her husband is a bad man before she was married to him.
joy	emotional_events	Discussing psychology with my friends before the lecture.
disgust	emotional_events	The serving lady in the students' dining hall shouting at studennts.
guilt	emotional_events	Passing by a good friend's home without coming in to visit him.
joy	emotional_events	You told me psychology can help people to be happier.
disgust	emotional_events	Class leader getting me to do things he did not want to do.
guilt	emotional_events	My mother wrote me and said that I would not writ enough letters home.
joy	emotional_events	My parents came to visit me.
disgust	emotional_events	A girl I do not like kept coming to me and talking to me.
guilt	emotional_events	Made a misjudgement in a football match.
joy	emotional_events	My friend told me he really likes me.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was the South Koreans on the TV.
guilt	emotional_events	Unable to help my mother to cook.
joy	emotional_events	I met a friend I had not seen for a long time on the street.
disgust	emotional_events	Some foreign students playing loud music late at night.
guilt	emotional_events	Did not get up early enough to watch my class football team playing against another team.
joy	emotional_events	Scoared a goal in a football match.
disgust	emotional_events	A woman picked her nose and spit right next to me.
guilt	emotional_events	Not being a good host for a friend from a far away place.
joy	emotional_events	My class winning against another class in a football match.
disgust	emotional_events	A boy in my class talking too loud in the lecture.
guilt	emotional_events	Being miserable in a party when other people are friendly and happy.
joy	emotional_events	Meeting an old friend from high school.
disgust	emotional_events	Getting into a crowded bus.
guilt	emotional_events	Not accepting hints of intimate relation from a girl.
joy	emotional_events	My old friend visited me in the university.
disgust	emotional_events	Cueing in the students dining hall.
guilt	emotional_events	Not being able to spend more time with a friend who was visiting me.
joy	emotional_events	Scoring a goal in football match.
disgust	emotional_events	Doing this pointless questionnaire.
guilt	emotional_events	I am not doing what I should with this questionnaire.
joy	emotional_events	Saw in TV that China had the most gold medals in the Asian Olympic.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone I do not like kept talking to me.
guilt	emotional_events	Being rude to someone I do not like.
joy	emotional_events	Joining in a research group studying consumer's behaviour and helping the people in the shop with the sales.
disgust	emotional_events	Some students talking when other people are having a nap.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend asked for help and I was not able to help.
joy	emotional_events	China winning the Asian Olympic.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw my father with that woman he is married to now.
guilt	emotional_events	Not beeing able to stay with my mother for the National Day holiday.
joy	emotional_events	Being together with my best friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw someone messing up our room.
guilt	emotional_events	Did not do what I promised to do for a friend.
joy	emotional_events	My best friend chosen for your English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Finding out that the class leader can go to your lectures, and his English is worse than mine.
guilt	emotional_events	I hated you for not letting me go and found out that it was not your decision.
disgust	emotional_events	Heard some postgraduate students talking about girls being unsiutable to do medicine.
guilt	emotional_events	Not being able to convince my class leader that my friend is better than me to go to the English lectures.
joy	emotional_events	Receiving a letter from a boy I care.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw someone spitting in public.
guilt	emotional_events	Losing my temper to my sister.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out that I can go to your English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Some boys not cueing in the dining hall.
guilt	emotional_events	Not being able to help my friend to do homework.
joy	emotional_events	Getting into this university.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw some girls dressed up like Americans
guilt	emotional_events	Not handing in homework in time.
joy	emotional_events	Getting into this university to do medicine.
disgust	emotional_events	Foreign students playing loud music in the night before the biology examn.
guilt	emotional_events	Not doing well in the examn.
joy	emotional_events	Aticle published.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw Chinese people flattering foreigners.
guilt	emotional_events	Could not help a student who needs help.
joy	emotional_events	China winning the Asian Olympic games.
disgust	emotional_events	Girls dressed like foreigners in the university.
guilt	emotional_events	Insulting other people.
joy	emotional_events	When I found out that I can travel with my best friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Finding out that my best friend was deceiving me.
guilt	emotional_events	Not acting on my promise.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out that I am not ill (not seriously).
disgust	emotional_events	Saw people quarreling in a bus.
guilt	emotional_events	Forgot to give a present to my little nephew.
joy	emotional_events	First public speaking.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw people spitting in public.
joy	emotional_events	Falling in love.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone being arrogant to me.
guilt	emotional_events	Falling in love with a close friend.
joy	emotional_events	Doing unexpectedly well in an examn.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone told me he was chosen for the English lectures because he was a good friend of the class leader.
guilt	emotional_events	Late for a lecture and therefore missed it.
joy	emotional_events	Talking to a close friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a man dressed as a woman.
guilt	emotional_events	Could not buy a reference book because I got up too late to cue.
joy	emotional_events	Found out that me and my best friend are both chosen for the English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a very arrogant girl walking like a queen.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend asked to borrow my notes and I did not give them away (my notes too badly written)
joy	emotional_events	Talking to a close friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw someone who picked up a cigarette from the floor and smoked it.
guilt	emotional_events	Not getting the class paper in time for the lecture.
joy	emotional_events	My father promoted to be a professor.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw someone licking his dining bowl.
guilt	emotional_events	Not finishing homework in time.
joy	emotional_events	Found out that the girl I love loves me, too.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw an arrogant girl walking pass by.
guilt	emotional_events	My friend had trouble and I was not able to help him.
joy	emotional_events	China winning the Asian Olympic games (TV).
disgust	emotional_events	Cueing for a bus and the drivers having long dinner.
guilt	emotional_events	Did not return the library book on time.
joy	emotional_events	Hear a very nice joke made by a friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone I know and respect sexually assulted a girl.
guilt	emotional_events	Made a mistake at work.
joy	emotional_events	Found my name on the list of attending the English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone had stolen an article from a library journal.
guilt	emotional_events	Not finishing homework in time.
joy	emotional_events	Did well in an examn just before my father's birthday: the best present I can give to my father.
disgust	emotional_events	My roommate's lack of consideration of me.
guilt	emotional_events	My sister forgot to bring presents for my birthday, I was rude to her.
joy	emotional_events	Had a nice letter from my close friend.
disgust	emotional_events	My roommate boasting about her English lectures.
guilt	emotional_events	Some boys told me your nickname is \Little Girl Doctor\", I did á|not tell them off and laughed with them."
joy	emotional_events	Relatives visiting me.
disgust	emotional_events	Finding out that some students are getting good reports they do not deserve.
guilt	emotional_events	I kicked the chair in the classroom to express my anger.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out I was chosen for the English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone told me I was chosen for the English lectures because I am good looking.
guilt	emotional_events	Some boys talking about nicknames of the lecturers, and I was too afraid of them to stop them.
joy	emotional_events	Found out my wife (girl-friend?) pregnant.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a mate bribing the leader.
guilt	emotional_events	Fight with my mate after a quarrel.
joy	emotional_events	Receiving a nice present from my parents.
disgust	emotional_events	Some students whose English is worse than mine can go to your lectures (English lectures).
guilt	emotional_events	Not handing in homeworks in time.
joy	emotional_events	Article published.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw someone acting in a false manner in public.
guilt	emotional_events	Promised to do something for other people and did not do it.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out I am chosen to collect norms for Chinese aphasia (I will contribute to China's catching up with the West in neuropsychology).
disgust	emotional_events	Some students deliberately disobey me as a class leader.
guilt	emotional_events	Some students have been calling lecturers nicknames and I was not able to find out who they were to stop them.
joy	emotional_events	Going to a concert.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone acting stupid in public.
guilt	emotional_events	Said something I should not have said in public.
joy	emotional_events	Talking to my close friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Being looked at by someone I do not like.
guilt	emotional_events	I was not able to explain well to my good friend to make him less angry.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out that the person I love understands me.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw a selfish person doing a selfish thing.
guilt	emotional_events	Finding out that I have misunderstood other people.
joy	emotional_events	Hear my name on the list attending the English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Some people not cueing in the dining hall.
guilt	emotional_events	Not handing in homework in time.
joy	emotional_events	Having a good trip on a boat with good friends.
disgust	emotional_events	Heard someone boasting his fortune telling and I knew he was lying.
guilt	emotional_events	Shouting at my parents because I was angry about something else.
joy	emotional_events	Going to see a good film with my best friend.
disgust	emotional_events	Listening to my roommate boasting about her new clothes.
guilt	emotional_events	Not being able to help my friend to study English.
joy	emotional_events	Being elected as class leader.
disgust	emotional_events	A wurm dropped on my head.
guilt	emotional_events	Wrongly accused a classmate.
joy	emotional_events	Getting into this university to do medicine.
disgust	emotional_events	My roommate messing up our room.
guilt	emotional_events	Heard that my girl-friend was chosen for the English lectures and I was not. I lost my temper and she is very upset now.
joy	emotional_events	Success in university entrance examination.
disgust	emotional_events	My roommate being nice to a party leader in order to get into the party.
guilt	emotional_events	Not collecting letters for my friend al I promised.
joy	emotional_events	Doing well in an examn.
disgust	emotional_events	Saw two Canadian students boasting about how rich they are in Canada.
guilt	emotional_events	Calling lecturers nicknames when talking to housemen (They told ne you are even younger than they are so you should not be giving public lectures).
joy	emotional_events	Had a letter from my father (usually he does not write to me).
disgust	emotional_events	My roommate talking and shaking her bed at night.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend came to visit me and I was not there.
joy	emotional_events	Finding out my name on the list for English lectures.
disgust	emotional_events	Some boys boasting about their ability to tell dirty jokes.
guilt	emotional_events	When some housemen told me a young girl like you should not be allowed to lecture to consultants, I was too shy to argue against them.
joy	emotional_events	Made a wonderful driend who understands me.
disgust	emotional_events	Finding out some people had been talking about me at my back.
guilt	emotional_events	I did not reply to my friend's letter in time.
joy	emotional_events	Watching China winning the Asian Olympic games.
guilt	emotional_events	Not getting an airplane ticket fot my mother.
joy	emotional_events	Talking with a nice girl.
disgust	emotional_events	Talking to someone I disliked.
guilt	emotional_events	Not being able to help my friend.
joy	emotional_events	Getting a letter from a friend who did not write for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	A relative not acting on her promise.
guilt	emotional_events	A friend wanted to give me a surprise into my room and I thought she was stealing from the room.
joy	emotional_events	Being asked to go out by someone I care.
disgust	emotional_events	Postgraduate students talking about girls stupid.
guilt	emotional_events	My friend did not do well in the examn because I did not help him.
joy	emotional_events	I went on a picnic to the country side park.  The beautiful scenary made me feel relaxed and every worry disappeared , thus the picnic was worthwhile.
disgust	emotional_events	I had been forced to get together with strange and disgusting classmates.  The things they talked about disgusted me and made me feel ill at ease.  I knew that I would feel unhappy if I stayed there but I was defeated by the social norms.
guilt	emotional_events	I had not done my assignment seriously.  I only pretended to finish the work as the work did not have any meaning for me.  The whole thing made me feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	I preached to a F.3 students in a gospel camp.  They thus knew more about God and made up their minds to believe in Jesus.
disgust	emotional_events	Someone, who was sitting very close to me, was smoknig in the compartment of an air conditioned mini-bus.
guilt	emotional_events	One saturday night I did some meaningless work and went to bed very late.  Next morning I had was very sleepy so I continued sleeping even though I had work to do and I missed the Sunday service.
joy	emotional_events	When I attended the concert of a pop singer.
disgust	emotional_events	Because of the examination I had to study night and day.
guilt	emotional_events	The results of the mid term examinations were very poor.
joy	emotional_events	When I had a good result in the certificate examination.
disgust	emotional_events	I greeted a friend and he did not respond.
guilt	emotional_events	I cut a friend's hair in anger, without any consideration.
joy	emotional_events	Yesterday my friend gave me a gift and had dinner with me.
disgust	emotional_events	I was sitting in the bus and a man with a very unpleasant smell came and sat next to me, to top it all he smoked continously.
guilt	emotional_events	I got up late and I could not go to my lessons on time.  When I entered the class room the stare of the teacher and my classmates made me feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When my application for studying the masters degree was accepted.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was talking to a person who is a hypocrite, I felt disgusted at his reaction.
guilt	emotional_events	My wrong behaviour made my loved one feel sad and uneasy.
joy	emotional_events	When I first heard \I like you !\" from my boyfriend."
disgust	emotional_events	Once when I had started to write a paper, there was a phone call for me.  I had to go downstairs to receive it and after the conversation I discovered that all the information had disappeared from my mind.
guilt	emotional_events	Once when I was in the cell group (religious activity) I found that almost everyone in the group read the bible daily and I felt guilty in my heart.
joy	emotional_events	When I read the newspaper that morning I found my candidature number on the admission list of the Chinese university.  I was satisfied and happy and the cumulative anxiety disappeared.  I only wanted to cry out that I had succeeded.
disgust	emotional_events	Knowing that I had to do the survey with him I felt very reluctant.  Although I do not know him I feel disgusted by just looking at him.  Thinking that the project lasted several days I regreted having joined that project.
guilt	emotional_events	That evening when I opened the songbook while I was singing the song \Those were the days\" that guilt feeling became stronger.  á|The lyrics described well - I was really wrong.  The wish that I á|had made was really bad. If she were with me I would really be á|happy and we would play happily together like the days in á|secondary school and she would not be disappointed and gloomy á|because of me."
joy	emotional_events	When I learnt that I could do further studies at the Chinese university.
disgust	emotional_events	When I dined with my new friends, one of them kept reminding us that he was superior.
guilt	emotional_events	My friend came to the concert for my sake as it was me who had organized it and the concert was unsuccessful.
joy	emotional_events	I was accepted by the Chinese university.
disgust	emotional_events	During the Chinese lessons a student often showed off. Moreover he misbehaved and dressed very badly.  So disgusting !
guilt	emotional_events	I refused to lend my homework to a friend.
joy	emotional_events	[ No response.]
disgust	emotional_events	One day when I was sitting in a not very crowded bus, a middle  aged woman was standing beside me.  The person sitting next to me got up to get off and this woman pushed me and occupied the seat.  Then she took off her shoes and put her feet on the seat.
joy	emotional_events	[ No response.]
disgust	emotional_events	I am disgusted by people who spoil their identity because of misbehaviour.  This morning when I was in a crowded bus, I found a seat on which a university student was sitting on one side and he had put his bag and files next to him.  There was very little space left and I sat down while he kept on reading.  Even when I leaned on him he did not put his bag away.  He did not respond and I felt very angry.
guilt	emotional_events	One evening I went fishing with some friends but we could not fish as a fisherman had already put his net there.  We pulled out the net to find only crabs in it so we threw the net away.  The net was large and may have cost $1000.  The fisherman used the net to earn a living and we had had thrown it.
joy	emotional_events	I had a very close friend who went to Canada after her F.B, his  departure was unavoidable.  When he came back during the Summer holidays I was very happy as nothing had changed between us.
disgust	emotional_events	In secondary school I had a class-mate who talked too much.   Once we went to the cinema after school and she sat next to me and commented the movie throughout  - very disgusting.
guilt	emotional_events	My younger sister wanted to take classes to learn a musical instrument.  One Saturday morning my mother asked me to go with        her for the registration.  I did not want to go  so I said that there might be many bad people at the club.  As a resullt my sister was scolded by my mother.
joy	emotional_events	When I could study at university.
disgust	emotional_events	I felt disgusted on seeing my boyfriend after our separation.  One day he was begging at the mass transit railway station and at that moment I hated him.
guilt	emotional_events	I made my boyfriend so unhappy and depressed that I feel guilty.
joy	emotional_events	My friend had organized a birthday party for me secretly, I was very happy not so much for the presents but because they seemed to care for me.
disgust	emotional_events	I was an instructior in a youth organization.  Whenever we, the instructors would have a meeting the advisor would be present.  He did not understand our worknig conditions but talked a lot and had a lot of outdated ideas.  Whenever we disagreed with him he was very discontent and said that we had a prejudice against him.  Why did he have to treat us as his subordinates ?
guilt	emotional_events	When I was fighting with my elder brother I unintentionally hurt   him in the eye with a wooden bar.  I felt guilty and feared that he would be blind, fortunately he recovered after 15 days.
joy	emotional_events	I finished my homework; an important task.
disgust	emotional_events	My girlfriend lost her temper without any reason and she did not consider or respect my feelings.
guilt	emotional_events	I prayed unfaithfully.
joy	emotional_events	I am happpy when I get good results in the field of academics or athletics.
disgust	emotional_events	I hate the behaviour of my so called friends, they use bad language, spit, boast and treat the youngsters badly.
guilt	emotional_events	One day while we were strolling along the road one of my friends suggested that we go and watch a blue film.  I was curious so I went along but I felt quite guilty later.
joy	emotional_events	The day the results of the university entrance exam was published, I found my canditate number and I was very excited.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was a teacher in an evening school, a girl raised a lot of questions and expressed her opinions.  She, very often, took a stand which was different from mine and she thought that it was better than mine.  Her opinions were helpful academically, but  she did not take into consideration my position in public.  Also she seemed to be very talkative and so she disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	I was cold to my sister without meaning it, just because I was upset and frustated.
joy	emotional_events	When I learnt that I had been admitted to the university.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was travelling to school by bus, I went past a place where a sewer had been repaired.  There was a bad strong smell which suffocated me and I wanted to leave the place immediately.
guilt	emotional_events	I had promised myself that I would do one good deed every day.  One night I saw a beggar whose muscles had been atrophyed.  I walked passed him thinking that he was feigning.  Later I realized that he had not been pretending and I had a feeling of guilt as I had not kept my promise.
joy	emotional_events	Talkiing about the past happy hours with two friends at night in a camp a few months ago.  We shared our feelings, notions and every hidden anxiety.  I thought that they cared for me and I was very happy and satified.
disgust	emotional_events	At the crowded conditions of living.  I always quarrel with my elder brother as he puts the T.V volume at a deafening level and I can not practise my piano lessons.  Thus I feel that my home is disgusting.
guilt	emotional_events	I felt guilty at not having practised the piano.  I waste my teacher's time and guidance.
joy	emotional_events	I watched a football match with my old friend.  The performance of the team was very good and the team members were full of spirit.  The match was excellent and every time a goal was scored I felt excited.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was giving private tutorials to my student; he would not concentrate and was lazy.  He had not done the home work that I  had assigned and his academic level was very low.  It was a nuisance.
guilt	emotional_events	I entered the hostel this year.  My mother was ill and could not move and needed people to look after her.  Every week I left home to go back to school, I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	I received a letter from a friend whom I was missing
disgust	emotional_events	When I was studying and someone disturbed me.
guilt	emotional_events	I took french leave to do my homework.
joy	emotional_events	I realized that a fellow member had grown spiritually.  I was the leader of a spiritual group and had prayed for him.  He did not want to burn the incense but his mother forced him to do it.  Finally his mother told him that he could discontinue if he got good results at school.
disgust	emotional_events	Our neighbour came and gossiped, about others, with my parents.
guilt	emotional_events	Saw a blue film in a cinema.
joy	emotional_events	When I saw the certificate results, I did not feel very happy as I did not realize that I had got all the credits until my classmates pointed it out to me.  My parents and my relatives praised me and I realized that my results were good i.e 2A, 5B, 2C.  I felt satisfied with the results and was happy.
disgust	emotional_events	During a recent meeting, Mr. A showed his excitement and overindulged in the notes delivered.  Though his curiosity could not be blamed, his way of accquiring knowledge was an extreme behaviour e.g he always tried to know what I was reading and gained everything he could.
guilt	emotional_events	While quarreling with my brother I broke the glass door of the cupboard and a china doll.  We were scolded by my father for breaking the door but we did not tell him about the door.
joy	emotional_events	When I was admitted to the Chinese universiity.
disgust	emotional_events	When the summer holiday job was almost over.
guilt	emotional_events	Failed to keep an appointment.
joy	emotional_events	When I told my girlfriend a joke openly and frankly.
disgust	emotional_events	The behaviour of people spitting everywhere.
guilt	emotional_events	After masturbation.
joy	emotional_events	When I finished the work that I had planned to do - my homework.
disgust	emotional_events	It was a narrow and dirty passage which was located near the market and I had to stand there to wait for people.
guilt	emotional_events	I said something which was against my conscience.
joy	emotional_events	Several good friends made me a surprise visit and this made me happy.  They are my closest friends and we had not seen each other for a long time.
disgust	emotional_events	In a study group, a person always liked to argue on some unimportant, irrelevant and minor points.  He tried to persuade    others in an unfriendly way.  He was obstinate and would not accept  other's point of view.
guilt	emotional_events	I joked with an unfamiliar friend in an obstinate tone.  I was afraid of his misunderstanding me and being hurt and angry at me.  I felt sorry over my conduct and thought that I had to find an opportunity to apologize.
joy	emotional_events	I remember my religious experience.  During  a gospel camp, a few friends of mine decided to believe in God.  The joy that I felt at that time was more than words can express.  I blessed them and praised God in my heart.
disgust	emotional_events	My classmate got a \B\" for his homework while I only got a \"C\".  á|When we got the results he acted as if he did not merit this á|grade.  I found that his humility was hypocritical and I found it á|disgusting."
guilt	emotional_events	I had fixed a meeting with my classmates and I missed it as I was tired.  Besides everyone at the meeting was a stranger to me and I did not want to make friends with them.  Whatever the reasons - I  felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	I learnt from the newspaper that I had been accepted at the Chinese university of H.K.  It was 7 o'clock in the morning.  Later I told my family and relatives about it and had tea with them very joyfully.
disgust	emotional_events	A  group of youngsters dressed in fads talked foul language on a bus.  They also insulted the  pedestrians on the road and were impolite to the passengers of the bus.
guilt	emotional_events	While playing basketball I broke a team member's spectacles.  His face was injured by the  pieces of glass.  It was not serious but I felt guilty and blamed myself for being too careless and vigorous in my game.
joy	emotional_events	After a busy day I went back to my hostel.  I closed the door and had a drink, then I read my favourite book on the bed.  Suddenly I felt peace and joy.
disgust	emotional_events	A tiresome person held me up all day long.  I was very busy then (I can not remember what the problem was).  He continously tried to make me talk to him and disturbed me.
guilt	emotional_events	After an exam I was in a very bad mood as I had done it very       badly.  At home, my mother took so long to ask me how things had  gone that I lost my temper.  I overreacted and made my mother cry. She still prepared lunch for me and did not scold me .  Suddenly, I thought that it was my fault and I started crying.  á
joy	emotional_events	I was appreciated by others, especially my family members and my friends.
disgust	emotional_events	When I saw a lot of rubbish and animal waste on the floor.
guilt	emotional_events	[ When I break someone's things out of carelessness, or do something  to make others feel unhappy  or hurt the self-esteem / self-confidence  of others, especially if they happen to be friends or family members.]
joy	emotional_events	When I received the letter informing that I had been accepted to be a Chinese university student, I was excited as I had longed for it.
disgust	emotional_events	Once while studying for my exam I found so many complicated words that it disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	I was so excited once that I told my classmate that she was old, this hurt her and I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	[ During a certain period, I felt successful and extremely satisfied.   When I found that any tasks or decisions that I had made were better  than expected.]
disgust	emotional_events	[ I would classify subjectively, a certain gesture or the way of talking of a person as disgusting or inacceptable.]
guilt	emotional_events	We always made a lot of noise during a certain lecture.  This may have been because we did not respect the lecturer. Finaly, the lecturer could not tolerate it and he scolded us angrily and pointed out our misbehaviour.
joy	emotional_events	I felt happy when I received the letter telling me that I had been admitted to the university.
disgust	emotional_events	I used to play with a group of classmates and I found out later that they were cheap in thought, behaviour and conduct - they would smoke, fight and speak foul language.  I thought that they destroyed the image of college students.
guilt	emotional_events	Many years back I quarrelled with my younger brother for a small reason.  I used a pole to beat him and nearly broke his arm.  He recovered after a treatment which lasted several months.  After this our relationship was worse and he would not listen to me.
joy	emotional_events	One Saturday afternoon, I deliberately dressed up nicely (I had been in a bad mood of late).  I hoped to go for a walk in the soft sunlight to try and uplift my spirits.  When I was having lunch in the canteen, two of my male classmates asked me as to why I was dressed so nicely (they had seldom joked with me before).  One of them said that he had a lounge suit and we would look very nice if we wore them together.
disgust	emotional_events	When I was studying in the library a pair of lovers were sitting next to me talking in an intense and soft voice.  They were disturbing others.
guilt	emotional_events	Our class had organized a picnic in November.  I was the class representative so I became the organizor.  However the picnic was postponed by one week and I had something else to do then. Initially I did not ponder on what to do and decided to go for the picnic.  When I had the time to think about it I thought that my decision was wrong.  My classmates thought that I would go as I had signed my name but I did not go.  I told another class representative that I was not going but he did not know the reason behind my not going.  After the picnic my classmates asked me why I had not gone to the picnic and everytime someone mentioned it I was apologetic.  I should have decided right in the begining that I would not go and then they would not see me as irresponsible i.e promising to go and changing my mind afterwards.
joy	emotional_events	It was the first time I met him (my boyfriend Mr.W).  It was during the first term Summer vacations.  We met each other while handing in our homework.  He invited me have a trip with him and we were together till 8 P.M.
disgust	emotional_events	My boyfriend and I did not have any contact with each other during  the Summer holidays.  I met him the day of the registration and looked  through him.  In the canteen he asked me if I wanted to have a drink and  I said no as I did not want him to do me a favour.
guilt	emotional_events	One night,when I was in primary 5 or 6, I felt thirsty so I fetched the thermos to pour a cup of water for myself.  Then I saw my brother lowering his head and I, jokingly, poured the       water on his head.
joy	emotional_events	I had gone camping with my old classmates and there was a storm.  We were in a flurry but at that time I felt the love and concern of my friends.
disgust	emotional_events	A brother from one of the Christian fellowship often phoned me and talked to me for half an hour or more.  However there was nothing important in the conversation and I found the person very disgusting.
guilt	emotional_events	Once I bought my sister a pair of sports shoes as she was going to join an athletic meet.  However the shoes were a little big and had a few flaws.  She muttered all the way and blamed me for having wasted her money anf I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When the result of the certificate exam was announced.  I was surprised and happy as the result was better than I had expected.
disgust	emotional_events	My mother was always fastidious about my room, bed time, etc.  She treated us strictly and punished us physically.   These things were intolerable.
guilt	emotional_events	When I was in P3 I was always punished as I would forget to do my homework.  The first time that I was punished and not allowed to leave school, I slipped out of school.
joy	emotional_events	I was admited to the Chinese university of Hong Kong.  The day the results were announced I looked in the newspaper and saw my candidature number.
disgust	emotional_events	Once at a camp a classmate criticized me in front of others.  Now I find that this classmate is very disgusting.
guilt	emotional_events	I promised to join a meeting but did not turn up as I did not want to do the work.
joy	emotional_events	[ When my performance (homework or other work) is better than others.]
disgust	emotional_events	I made friends with a classmate whose behaviour I did not like - he tried to flatter other people and did not respect me.
guilt	emotional_events	When my behaviour was immoral - thinking about sex.
joy	emotional_events	During my Summer vacations I planned a carnival for the community youth center with a few other volunteers.  I was the head of the organizors and we spent over a month planning it.  During this period we got to know and understood each other.  We discovered each others potential and we planned many interesting things for the carnival.  The day of the carnival everything was bright, the programmes went well and the attendants enjoyed it.  I felt extremely excited about it.
disgust	emotional_events	I had joined a youth group that observed the affairs of our community and so I had many opportunities to contact the government and the committee members of the district board (a local executive structure).  We always tried to consult and discuss with them, but we found that such people did not understand community affairs and they even dampened our enthusiasm in local affairs.  I did not understand why they had decided to work as community leaders.
guilt	emotional_events	I borrowed my classmate's notebook one week before the examination and I promised to give it back to her in two days time.  I was very busy at that time and forgot many things; as I was not very often at home she could not contact me.  When I started my revision I realized that her notebook had been on my desk for five days.  I contacted her immediately and gave it back to her.  Though she did not say anything I felt very guilty.
joy	emotional_events	When high level results were declared, I found my candidature number.  I was very happy as I had not expected it.  As I had been  injured before the examination and I had performed poorly.
disgust	emotional_events	A few days back, I walked on a heap of faeces while walking on the road.  I got goose flesh because of this.
guilt	emotional_events	Once, my friend and I went to the Tai 60 to cycle.  My mother had told me not to go.  Unfortunately I broke my pectoral girdle and had to go to hospital.  When my mother  came to see me I felt guilty as I had not listened to her and I had to soon sit for a public examination.
joy	emotional_events	After attending a song contest proposed by a band called \Chyne\" á|we (6 of us) waited for the members of the band to greet us in á|front of the stage.  We went out after a few minutes as it was á|time to close the hall.  We had been waiting at the entrance hall á|for ten minutes when three of the band members came out.  They á|were very excited to see us, one of them was so excited that he á|had tears in his eyes.  We felt very warm and close to each á|other.  They took us back into the hall and we talked freely.  We á|were together for about an hour and during this time we felt á|that they were very sincere."
disgust	emotional_events	During these Summer vacations a schoolmate who was not in my class went to Britain.  Before he left, his classmates and some of us who were accquainted with him had a B.B.Q on the beach.  When I arrived I saw that some people , who were not close friends of the departing person(person A), were playing mahjong.  Some others were playing bridge and A had nothing to do, besides it was A who had prepared the food.  Later when we wanted to talk and his classmates did not even have the decency to listen to him.  They only asked him a few questions half-heartedly and then they talked on their own.  Some of their conversation was against me and  another classmate.
guilt	emotional_events	I went to a friend's baptism as she became a Christian after me and I realized that she was more enthusiastic about her spiritual life than I was.  When I was with my brothers and sisters of Christ I had a guilty feeling which could not be dismissed easily.  When pepole asked me as to when I would be baptised my guilt feeling deepened.
joy	emotional_events	When I received the result slip of the higher level examination (an university entrance exam) and saw that I had a very good possibility of being accepted into the university, I felt very excited.
disgust	emotional_events	A few days back I was waiting for the bus at the bus stop.  Before getting into the bus I had prepared the exact amount of coins to pay for the bus fair and when I got into the bus I put these coins into the box meant to collect the bus fair.  I thought that I had paid and wanted to get inside.  However the bus driver called me and asked me in an impolite way if the coins were stuck at the opening  of the box.  He had not seen me paying and there wasn't a stack of coins in the box.  I could not understand this and the driver kept questioning me.  He made me feel angry and at last i inserted a dollar coin in the box just to get away from him.  Later I found that I had forgotten a few coins in my pocket and had not paid enough for the fair the first time.  After I had entered the bus I could still hear him scolding me and I felt disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	Once I quarrelled with my sister and after this I deliberately messed up her belongings.
joy	emotional_events	I had a dream : I had a very close friend who had several stone houses in the New Territories (villages) but they did not have much furniture.  He took me to see his fields (I had never seen them before) and there were several inches of clear water on which the sunshine was reflected.  I wanted to sit among the short green plants in the fields but was afraid of treading the plants to death.  My friend said \They will not die\" and I sat á|down happily and my trousers did not get wet."
disgust	emotional_events	I had a friend who was very kind to me.  I tried my best to like him and understand him but when I was with him I could not help rejecting, criticizing and blaming him.  I wanted to get away from him as soon as possible.
guilt	emotional_events	I wanted to get rid of a bad habit and it seemed that I had succeeded.  However a year later I got the bad habit again.  I felt  useless as I always found excuses to explain my behaviour.  As a result I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	During the exam period I studied in the library alone.  A close   friend of mine, who is also a classmate, told me that my application for a Japanese inter-cultural exchange programme had been accepted.  I was not very sure as I did not know that the list had been declared.  I ran to the board and saw that I was really included in the list.  I was so excited that I smiled all day long.  When I met my classmates and friends I told them the good news.  I was so happy that I could not concentrate on my studies. á
disgust	emotional_events	A friend told me that a boy wanted to get to know me.  At that time I felt disgusted and thought that it was a nonsense thing.
guilt	emotional_events	One night during dinner my nephew was naughty, so I quarrelled with my  parents.   I regreted this as my nephew was only two years old and I  had to tolerate him !  The quarrel made my father think that his children  may not take care of him in the future (it was a slip of the tongue and  this made me realize that my father keeps his thoughts to himself).  I was  still very angry so I dropped my bowl and chopsticks and went to the kitchen  to drink tea and then ran to the other side of the house.
joy	emotional_events	That afternoon I rushed home to look at the result slip of the higher level as fast as possible.  I opened the envelope very carefully and found that my results were much better than I had expected and thus I could enter the Chinese university.  My diligence had paid and I was very happy.
disgust	emotional_events	My friend and I worked for the community centre by holding a booth.  One day my friend went off to another booth to play.  This meant that I was very busy and could not maintain order.  His behaviour disgusted me.
guilt	emotional_events	At secondary school, one of my classmates lost her locker key.  During a class I saw two other classmates holding a key and talking secretly.  I do not know why I suspected them, also another classmate supported me.  He remembers that these people had only one key in the key-ring, this had seemed strange to him.  Besides another classmate said that he had seen them selling books at a book-shop and they should not have had such books.  I told the teacher and the person was caught.  He had sold the books and was forced to quit school.  I found that I had not helped him as he stole later on also.  I felt guilty
joy	emotional_events	One night, my boyfriend expressed his love for me in the canteen in the presence of my friends by giving me a present.
disgust	emotional_events	When my roommate and I had dinner together we decided as to who would clean the bowls.  One day when I came back from school I found that she had not cleaned up.  Since I had to cook dinner I cleaned them myself and felt unhappy and disgusted.
guilt	emotional_events	I escaped from communicating with God for a long time.  I did not read the scriptures and I did not pray.  I felt that I was getting further and further away from God.  I felt guilty as this was because of my laziness.
joy	emotional_events	When two female classmates and I were having lunch, we chatted and  cracked jokes, I was very happy.  However, I felt that I may have  said something inappropriate which might cause them to have a bad  impression of me.
disgust	emotional_events	Whenever I spoke to a female classmate I felt disgusted.  She said meaningless things and seemed to indicate something to me but I did not love/like her.
guilt	emotional_events	Once while playing tennis with my classmate I lost a few tennis balls.  I found one near the tennis court and took it to be mine despite thinking that it might belong to the student in the next court.  I felt guilty.  Later someone came to me to claim the ball and I gave it back to him.
joy	emotional_events	When I received a letter from the university telling me that my application had been accepted.
disgust	emotional_events	The curriculum of the year !   The English course was very heavy.  I had not prepared and the teacher asked several questions during class.  The students were not ready to answer the questions and the teacher was frustated.
guilt	emotional_events	Peeping.
joy	emotional_events	I had a picnic with old classmates, we chatted and played games.
disgust	emotional_events	A man sexually aggressed a small girl in the bus but the girl did not dare to speak out.
guilt	emotional_events	There were old people in a crowded bus and I did not have the courage to give them my seat.  I closed my eyes to sleep and then opened my book to read.  In my heart I wanted to give them the seat.
joy	emotional_events	It was the first time that I gave a birthday present to my friend.   She wrote me a letter as she is my girlfriend.  The content of the letter was so sweet that it made me feel very happy.á
disgust	emotional_events	At hostel, my roommate was a very selfish person and would avoid doing anyhting that did not concern him.  A few of us prepared lunch together and had decided to share the work.  My roomate had promised to do the same but I had to wash the bowls everytime after dinner.  I tried to wait and thought that he would realize his fault.  I did not want to tell him to do the work as he is a university student and ought to have self-respect.  He disappointed me and so every time I saw him I tried to avoid him and did not want to keep any contact with him.
guilt	emotional_events	In the past I used to think that my mother was a very nagging person.  When I started living at the hostel we had little time to meet each other.  Whenever I went home she would take care of me.  I gradually realized that what she had done was for my own good.  So very time I saw her I felt guilty.
joy	emotional_events	In August,1983, the long awaited \big envelope\" (a document for á|C.U.H.K admission) arrived.  It was in the afternoon and I had á|not been doing anything.  When the postman, with his big bag, á|knocked on the door I knew what it was about.  I hurriedly á|opened the envelope and my mood at that time is hard to describe. á| It lasted several hours and only calmed down later."
disgust	emotional_events	My roommate liked to listen to some meaningless songs which had melody but had no content.  We lived together so when he played the recorder I was forced to listen to them.  I could not tell him that I did not like to listen to the songs, as I had no right to disturb the freedom of others.  So I would find a pretext to leave the room and go somewhere else.
guilt	emotional_events	I lied to one of my best friends.
joy	emotional_events	I received a letter from a distant friend.
disgust	emotional_events	I was at home and I heard a loud sound of spitting outside the door.  I thought that one of my family members would step on the spit and bring the germs in the house.
guilt	emotional_events	I had shouted at my younger brother and he was always afraid when I called out loudly.
disgust	tweets	Bad week for connectivity...Arlington Panera wifi sucks. Maybe head to Legal Seafoods at airport. Dang...missing Metaverse U stream.
disgust	tweets	Very bored. All day, no one 2 talk 2. Missing my BF (and his kisses). Hols almost over,  don't wanna go back 2 skool.
disgust	tweets	is stuck in traffic
disgust	tweets	Man i am being boring today not tweeting  How are you guys?
disgust	tweets	bored , cleanin the house
disgust	tweets	ya know why today sucks? its been raining, we have no $, &amp; no possibility of a magic friday.  so whats goin down tonight?
disgust	tweets	oh no, i need new work shoes...i broke this one!
disgust	tweets	@ericmaglio1 i have no phone  whatchu doing tonight sucka. no dane cook she sold the tickets. lamee.
disgust	tweets	is tired. 04:30 alarm setting will do that  Off to bed as soon as my bloody iPhone Backup and Sync finishes.
disgust	tweets	even though it's only 7am on Saturday morning, it feels like the weekend is already over. btw I'm awake because I had a bad dream..
disgust	tweets	Ugh... Waiting.... Interminable...
disgust	tweets	@thefunkyfairy hiya, hows your week been?? just tried to DM you but your not following!  x
disgust	tweets	@themabster not if you have to be to work at six...
disgust	tweets	@edie22 What's wrong with Dr.Phil? I shamefully loved his show when I was able to watch it.
disgust	tweets	@hughsbeautiful beast I have had enough
disgust	tweets	Mikey I'm bored
disgust	tweets	Dead stopped in the express lane. This would happen when I choose to take it. No way out now. Ugh. Hopefully this gets moving
disgust	tweets	@savingtime buuuut its so annoying!!  okay *breathes* x.
disgust	tweets	have to go meet tims entiiiiire family in an hour, this should be different.. finishing getting ready then wake ; feel like shit still
disgust	tweets	Ahhhhh processing shipment  sooooooo much!!!!!
disgust	tweets	Going crazy  super head ach from hell and my the in laws have ben here since 9 this morning. ahhhh
disgust	tweets	my brother left me for the day now I am here by myself
disgust	tweets	Facebook won't load for me.  Damn it, I'm bored.
joy	tweets	im a pro at bbqing like. everyone loved my food, apart from the tesco man who said he was in a rush  mabye he didnt wanna be poisoned? idk
joy	tweets	Mom just &quot;he'd&quot; me. *sigh* She's wonderful, and it was just a slip, but you'd think after coming with for my surgery it might go away...
joy	tweets	@clio_jlh LOL That's a special kind of magic, though! ;)  And did you see the special on Discovery?  They think Nessie died.
joy	tweets	going to watch some tv now - crazy night out - up at 7am for work tomorrow  I'll live somehow! At least it means I finish early!
joy	tweets	@Danny30011980 @Gavinmusic great pic,have to upload my pix tomo,I've no laptop tonight.
joy	tweets	Sunburned on my face &amp; legs. Fixing to be my arms tooo.
joy	tweets	I'm SO thinking about skippin out to NY in the morning. . . but all of my plans were for tonight  well . . . most of them anyway.
joy	tweets	why I love so much, why your make me smile all the time? why your so special but i cant have u  ? I get scared to try.
joy	tweets	it's ridiculously warm in bed
joy	tweets	@yesitsfiasco cool! ok yeah see i dont have the old files with separate vocals so im trying to punch em all up as one track(all i can do)
joy	tweets	@snuffdigital awww  well I am here...just in case...I am not like THE PERFECT FUNNY FRIEND but I`m here hehe
joy	tweets	also finally home with no friends or anyone.. kinda nice to sit in a quiet room.. do wish the gf was here tho...
joy	tweets	@jonasobsessedx ._.; Thanxxx ! Now with that message I just wanna leave !! )= ! BYE !
joy	tweets	may have unintentionally snubbed someone due to my ineptness/shyness. feel badly
joy	tweets	@kvagur  haha soooo party tonight???
joy	tweets	@LMontt I went on a Disney Cruise when I was a kid, but the characters were on strike so there weren't any
joy	tweets	@donnyosmond Very excited as we have just booked tickets to Vegas (we live in the UK) can't believe the  price of the show tickets
joy	tweets	@KarolinePaixao EPIC moment! hahahha i swear.. i really wanna see it
joy	tweets	@bobbiepen yeah, I was always changing my hair color in High School.  I've pretty much worn everything LOL. Some good, some baaaaaaaad
joy	tweets	@yahyan  yahyan: @supremacii iaaaaaaaaaaaaan, i was just joking
joy	tweets	is rockin' a minivan til the STi is ready. I miss it already
joy	tweets	@clouddancefest It was truly awful
joy	tweets	Come on, man, give me some slack!
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight I feel for you  I hope it's a smooth flight. Be safe! Mucho amor from Boston!
joy	tweets	@Ashcoates its been fun so far, but its nothing like a festival altho we did have a cider this afternoon, but only the one
joy	tweets	@flossa  have a glass of cold water and meditate a bit. &lt;3
joy	tweets	@Jamieed i hope its earlier. september is along time offf
joy	tweets	When are @alyandaj gonna release another album already?!? I miss them
disgust	tweets	TGIF... Hubby dragged me out to buy car parts. I am tired n cranky
joy	tweets	Had Sbarro for dinner and Krispy Kreme for dessert. Mmmmm! But so not very healthy.
joy	tweets	@KirkDunst not cool.   Hope you feel better. I went up there for breakfast buy you were gone.
joy	tweets	Feels like throwing up!
joy	tweets	@martinhavlat Dang! Wish I could go  I have tickets for Sundays game!!
disgust	tweets	J Ross you can't leave the killers still singing and run the titles - you should have been edited out for more music - happy - not
joy	tweets	Going out to eat with my entourage, probably to Fat E's since they're closing tomorrow!   watching a movie with Jimmy tonight, text me....
disgust	tweets	@grooveybianca12 nah jkin he's hot! so... bored now
joy	tweets	@montiAsutton I wish I could really do that  I love having u around! Ill see what I can do.. ;) try to use that national champ pull lol
joy	tweets	Im a loner  haha suckss
joy	tweets	i wish i could teach my dog how to play xbox!  alas...no thumbs
joy	tweets	Great, just great. #Cookoutofthecentury and my wife's tummy hurts. Just. Great.
joy	tweets	I am so full. No more food tonight... I don't want no cake and ice cream at this party.
joy	tweets	i need to write really bad. can someone go get my diary from my flat for me
joy	tweets	Watchin 'how to lose a man in 10 days' wiv mum  lol
joy	tweets	YES!  I have my e-mail down to one window (most of which are marked for follow-up on Monday).  all the dang paper still here tho
joy	tweets	@darkkiller101 I miss you too!!   And don't say &quot;damn&quot;!!!  lol
joy	tweets	Headed to see friends new baby. Gave up trip to the lake cause of dance class. Such a good mama.
joy	tweets	@catrionat7 Lol I Sed Want to Not Ach Dress Up For No Reason. Pleaseeeeeeeeeeeeee Im Bored.  Lol
joy	tweets	hahahahah i woke up at 9 today.. totally missed lecture and the quiz  open lab was useless. chipotle w/ silvera and jenny was greeat 8D
joy	tweets	Finally got a date for the bonfire tonight. Kinda last option but whatever. None of the chicks I wanted to go with never texted me back
disgust	tweets	@dmafiax thanks ALOT, stuck at work with it too
joy	tweets	So much to tell-Only blip is her immune system hasn't recovered-not yet a newborns. Give it 6 more months.  But that's nothing.
joy	tweets	Six feet under theme is on jjj
joy	tweets	bbq was great... just relaxing around the house!  dont wanna leave my city but have to tomorrow... got to clean the house when i get back
joy	tweets	no so sad about that  i'm from MALTA have you heard about it ?
disgust	tweets	my neighbours are far too loud in thier back garden, all I can hear is this loud woman that won't stop laughing
joy	tweets	I woke up and my hiccups came back!
joy	tweets	BBQ's gone well ! Weather stayed good which is a right bonus. Just off to bed, training in the morning at 06:30 then work
joy	tweets	i miss k_ris punking me everytime we hung out and effnng me up
joy	tweets	is  wishing work was done soon  &lt;3
joy	tweets	@kimble09 yeah   but I'm jus glad the thunder stopped .
joy	tweets	Definitely need to work out after this business trip- too much free food and alcohol. I'm sure I've gained a few pounds.
joy	tweets	Thanks to my assignment im off to work today!
joy	tweets	another great workout! but I'm feelin kind of funny
joy	tweets	word is marlon brando gave him 25 cent . . . yeah , tha GODFATHER
joy	tweets	Is helping out at church pianos +stairs+gravity= heavy
joy	tweets	I just want to watch my Naruto Shippuuden missed episodes.
joy	tweets	@selenagomez bananabrain2 got hit by a car and got screwed! : O, 32 oepn wounds, a broken finger, broken toe (both toe and nail) f**ed up
joy	tweets	i have problems wih pizza..ii love it too much..i'm so addicted to pizza  and Dot Dot Curve. &gt;
joy	tweets	@rachyzilla still haven't been to the infamous liverpool store  my manager helped set it up said it's awesome (y)
joy	tweets	@becckysmith aw no!  yeah I must say, it was very good haha
joy	tweets	639 baby! GOD ITS SAD REALLY  oh well lifes a partaaay! xxxxxxxxxx
joy	tweets	so ready to go home
joy	tweets	Im had to leave early to go to piccolo practice.
joy	tweets	@JayDoub Hello, im good thank you - tottaly tired, been working lots today...tottaly shattered!  what about u
joy	tweets	Getting a little mowing the grass in this evening!  fun
joy	tweets	@samchannah @juliedeborah Beer is an excellent excuse. Earlier i was sweating god knows how much! Not looking forward to working tomorrow
joy	tweets	my 43 quid lastminute.com Secret hotel at heathrow is surprisingly nice. No soap tho
joy	tweets	playing at my old school playground still the same except them lame ass got rid of the tire swing
joy	tweets	OK, time to head into Urban Outfitters to see what catches my eye, then head home, since this rain is hindering any more pics for the day
joy	tweets	@devidev im stuck 2  this when my la love turns in2 road rage lol
joy	tweets	Is cold  Mind you I have been sat outside for 30 mins waiting for a lift. I don't care how much of a balearic evening it might be!!!
joy	tweets	@TheShoctor @pezhore @O3Visuals @N9VLS Victory! Now I just need to reinstall all my damn apps.
joy	tweets	Watering the plants at home. Drinking a delicious smoothie from morgans because my jamba exploded.
joy	tweets	is going to forgo Pub Night with the wife tonight. Tough week for both of us and neither is really up for it. Plus our neighbor died
joy	tweets	Just realized it is friday and b/c of a party I don't get to go racing.
joy	tweets	wants to go swimming
joy	tweets	@fly_meaway I'm sorry hon  I know how it feels though...I'm usually crazy but at a family gathering I'd probably hold back like that also
joy	tweets	@TweetTwang gotta check with the bro on that...and mine is a girl
joy	tweets	wants to cool down
joy	tweets	toy story 3! june 2010. i can't wait that long.
joy	tweets	@dotboom  i am defiantly watching it. I was at work  when you were streaming and had to leave.
joy	tweets	@naomijlea good job I have the track in my head, cos sadly can't access it, boo
joy	tweets	@Jasiurl YAEH! THANK GOD IM HOME!...it suekd and we were kicked out of a church.
joy	tweets	K, just finished my last 2 clients for the night. Going home alone  Thats ok I need to be alone, must find inner peace.
joy	tweets	RIP Attack Attack!  MTV headbangersball? really? and now you are inside the &quot;goth&quot; genre, wow, I'll still be seein you at @warped09 :/
joy	tweets	@LeeGazeprophets white pointy shoes haha, and ah you got me excited about the enw drummer  youre mean!
joy	tweets	@mysolis Aw, sorry ur day sucked!  Did u see my post abt car issues? LOL I think it's safe to say it can only get better tho. Beer-thirty?
joy	tweets	@vicki_xx :O really  well if u want, we can go 2gether next yr?
joy	tweets	white pointy shoes haha, and ah you got me excited about the new drummer  youre mean
joy	tweets	DotA is an addiction...i waste 6-7 hours playing dota
joy	tweets	Meeting up with Karen and the boys for some drinks at The Dock!!!  All I wanna do is drink though..    fuck it like Andrea said! Haha
joy	tweets	liz just left  aww it was so good to see her.
disgust	tweets	We are on the slowest train ever, it stops everywhere. Missed a quick train by a few minutes
joy	tweets	@joe_g1986 a price drop would be nice  I want another one for a backup/blu-ray player.
joy	tweets	@tatianafrosario omg wow  I hope everything is ok now
joy	tweets	@xoxo_emily  i wish i was there to hear that!
joy	tweets	Rehearsal is done  we had SO MUCH FUUN. hide&amp;seek tag and we learned BOMB DANCES , going home and doing hw maybe!
joy	tweets	@DomCorleone  oh hell yeah lol. im a vegetarian tho but i still cooks the mean =X im a traitor
joy	tweets	people with mustaches get super powers and mustaches. no fair.
disgust	tweets	@jambomb oh that looks boring  and even more boring you have an exam on a saturday
joy	tweets	Ohhhhh what a line
joy	tweets	@jenniferdodd I'm out of town next week   We'll have to party when I get back. Happy early Birthday!
disgust	tweets	tired as fuck. it's pissing down with rain. i miss summer
joy	tweets	@Tatylicious Hey chick!  When are we going to JA to pick up some hot guys and eat Jerk pork and festival? Well you already have a hot guy
joy	tweets	I am so glad it's Friday. I just got off work and I'm so tired.
disgust	tweets	is not liking the online livebox right now. Internet is dead.
joy	tweets	@DizzyMalfoy ouchie  Did u take some Excedrine? Thats the ONLY thing that kills my headaches FAST!
joy	tweets	@sheelovewood aaaau thanks gi  , I really really love u.Thanks for being a really great friend.And forgiveme if i leave you sometime, ?
disgust	tweets	Just got home from the BEA &amp; it was kinda boring (2 me) this year  but hung out with some GREAT authors &amp; co-workers!
joy	tweets	@ greengoo: Haha, I don't have any  I have decided to see if making a grilled cheese on a George Foreman would work well...
joy	tweets	Hubby needs a vacation  Thank God we're leaving for Myrtle Beach in a week!
joy	tweets	@GravyFloid Amadeus is the best Mozart movie. I got kicked out of high school chorus, missed a trip to Hawaii.
joy	tweets	@amandalaur that would be awesome i think, i hate how expensive phones are
joy	tweets	@fifleaona I work in a room in the middle of the office, thus no windows. We call it the programmer cave, I  can only imagine the sky.
joy	tweets	trying to upload one thousand photos!!
joy	tweets	Missing my morning work out cause my bench press is back in Jakarta  goodluck diga! Test will be easy peasy! Hehehe
joy	tweets	Yeahhhhhhhhhhhhh friday..and I work tomorrow
joy	tweets	@cnolovechild YAY!!! I think I found it and a few more
joy	tweets	@mitchelmusso WISH YOU COULD CALLL ME  DO U HAVE A UK MY SAY NOW NUMBER? UR ACCCE! X
joy	tweets	I need to look at apartments tomorrow
joy	tweets	I have an awesome picture of happy pint, but it's not sending
joy	tweets	@mnrmg I am doing the same  I want to travel a little!
joy	tweets	Well good job to my two cousins that are graduates! Good luck in life!!!  &lt;never wear your pajama pants to school  &gt;
joy	tweets	@starrjonze that's the prob, i work from home, and the bed's calling, no, screaming out my name! had really strong coffee instead
disgust	tweets	bored fixed the internet for my dad but now im bored to death
joy	tweets	@RamEsRock  rompes mis ilusiones con lo de thrasher haha
joy	tweets	Glad to be home I wish I could make @CBrown7785 feel better
joy	tweets	Crisis averted!  Phew! On a different note, @AmeeC3 and @Zelenski....you guys are making me so proud! tear!  wish i could have joined
joy	tweets	@Dannigyrl Fabulous. And I didn't get that pic  Gmail be acting the fool sometimes. Can u DM me it?
joy	tweets	@glennbeck we can't wait to see you too! pls come back to iowa it isn't the same at the theatre
joy	tweets	Romeo and Juliet were very much in love when they were wed. They honored their vows, and where are they now? they're dead.
joy	tweets	either my inerne is fucked or my mind is but i'm pretty sure that it's the internet
joy	tweets	@sugafactory omg me 2 !! Haha i was half an hour late 4 work whoops !! Hahaha i h8 workin sat mornins
joy	tweets	@rgoodchild yeah it made a great noise, and tripped the house circuit breaker. Good Times. $200 worth of parts too
joy	tweets	@JPuno Good to see you back. Sorry that happened to you
joy	tweets	getting ready to see my cousins graduate.  gonna miss em.
joy	tweets	@RoboRoxy @lulzlix I'm SO jealous! I don't know when I'll be able to see Conan.
joy	tweets	Jon made one of the greatest dinners ever: roast pork tenderloin on a bed of wild rice on a bed of mixed greens &amp; yummy sauce. No wine
joy	tweets	Im glad that wasnt my real diver theory test! I failed  i got 70% 35/50 questions right but i did have 35mins left lol x
joy	tweets	@talk2donboy LOL well i'm qlad u enjoyed yur ramen noodles.. i had fried chicken  ..im tired now
joy	tweets	hey im back on.. but msn won't work  darn msn haha. can't stop thinking about 3d movie haha!
joy	tweets	Oh.  The voting is over!   But don't worry, I already voted for you about 100000000000000000000000000000000000 times earlier!!!!!!  &lt;3
joy	tweets	@TheKellanLutz OMG i want to go too!  hahaha
joy	tweets	sitting at home cuz my plans for tonight cancled  but they are on for tomo so that makes me happy  ctc or txt me!
joy	tweets	@AnnaDiFilippo have fun without me pasty  &lt;33
joy	tweets	@ReminisceSmith im only on 1800  lol
joy	tweets	@Colie5cent $300 later... I feel so good! But guilty
joy	tweets	@mellalicious I have to call stevie to reschedule!!  I won a competition yesterday to the launch of sims 3 at Luna park, same day at 6pm
joy	tweets	My best mate found out that I am moving. She doesn't understand I wanna do something with my life; Leaving to go to Uni..
joy	tweets	@Cadwaladr omg yes!!!!!!! but I have to get ready for work early tonight  I have payroll distribution duty
joy	tweets	so bored  Gonna go to the Carnival and get an all day pass tomorrow. Excited for that, but very bored today.
joy	tweets	@cassetetapes  shareeee.
joy	tweets	@zachsang  do it at like like 9 causeee im babysitting haha or you should call me causeee im kinda bored right now
joy	tweets	@spookygirl what a great project!!! Wish I could have done that with DD1. She's too old now.
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly http://twitpic.com/67uc7 - awww it's a shame that your all flued up  but apparently it's realllly good stuff. good luck f ...
joy	tweets	at least two to three times a week i turn on the tv, find comedy central already on and have to endure a brief moment of scrubs
joy	tweets	@ce_ci ewww poor you  wish you all the best! thank God there is Rolland Garros this month isn't?! ;P
joy	tweets	I think I already regret telling rick I have an xbox... I'm losing him to that and twitter..  you still want it jimbo haha
joy	tweets	This day jus keeps getting better and better  FML
joy	tweets	Prayin for dad  in Wellington, FL http://loopt.us/F8_Jqg.t (via @furman27).  I too live in welly. May i pray f.. http://bit.ly/lB9SN
joy	tweets	Ate huge set of Appetizers. full now
joy	tweets	@loonyboi You rule for doing this! I bought the second game at full price and lost it in a move.
joy	tweets	@spjwebster wish @njwebster was coming too  I guess we can make time for you though if we have to ;)
disgust	tweets	longest flight EVER. not particularly unpleasant or uncomfortable, just really really long
joy	tweets	@grypes noooo! Little piggies.  i'll vote anyway, hmpf. We need to hang out soon pls. :hugs!:
joy	tweets	I really want to go see UP!  haha. Tooo cute! (:
joy	tweets	@LadyRedCrest @miss_hazy  Have safe trips! And Indy is my home
joy	tweets	@Gemma_Rigby Well my neck hurts from moving out  you massage me, i massage u?! lol!
joy	tweets	@JadeSkylar - oh, COOL!! D. I'm going to like a bunchh of JB shows this summer... I am so broke now though  haha
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly good show for you guys .. i wish i could be there to see you
joy	tweets	@eric_extacy lol i know eric, i wont delete you! just people i dont really know and never talk. and bands
joy	tweets	@MitaliandMe thanks for trying
joy	tweets	@KelseyJ_xo  hey chick u alryt u at dads tmoro we sud do sumin aen like last week we neva dun oot this week lol  missed you ha bye hun xxx
joy	tweets	The Hangover: That movie is gonna be hilarious. wish i could see it with the crew
joy	tweets	@ce_ci Im not reasonable... It's 1:35am now and gotta wake up early tomorrow on my first day of holidays!  have a great evening!
disgust	tweets	waiting to go to the movies later for my 6th month. booored.
joy	tweets	@DelbertShoopman Good luck with the footage - none of the stations are breaking in live with it
joy	tweets	Mom says I have to get a new phone IMMEDIATELY....off to T-Mobile.  she paying....
joy	tweets	@KennyJ88 that was good . but mean  haha
joy	tweets	@vickytcobra ohhh wonder what happened?
joy	tweets	Here's a big moan for Dave Leyrock... IM UP IN 8HRS!  pity me! Coloursfest ahoy xo
joy	tweets	@ghaliia Mabrook @iamMishal inta wain wil diet wain! @p0ach ma 3indi funoon
joy	tweets	been in bed for two days with migraines
joy	tweets	OMG Great Day Today Went To A Art Thingy  And Noe I Really Want A Zune HD  And The Bed Part Its Raining  Come Out Mister Sun
joy	tweets	My whole life has come to this......incredibly amazing
joy	tweets	Cleaned out my Followers List and blocked the porn girls &amp; Crap Now I look like a spammer
joy	tweets	I hate not getting e-mail's  going to do other stuff now...ice my toe (long story) and have some calpol (cold :S) soooo night xxxx
joy	tweets	Back home after a funeral for my wife's grandfather today.  Now its time for homework
joy	tweets	@StoneBrewingCo um... thats my favorite beer!! why must you torture me so when I can't make it down there!!
joy	tweets	to the doctor  anyone wanna do somethin after for a bit?
joy	tweets	Going home to enjoy what is left of the day - I can't believe how quickly this week flew by, no time for tweets
joy	tweets	@MsHollywoodDiva hahahaha your watching 106 too... i miss Oceans 10...
joy	tweets	Off to ambers...a weekend of labour and hard work ahead!
joy	tweets	@NikkiBenz cool !! actually i believe T.I. has just begun his jail sentence in arkansas
joy	tweets	LauraA22is missing the fun she had with @Sylars_Army at Eclipse 3  #SArmy #SArmy #SArmy
joy	tweets	Nursing my sick guniea pig back to health  and my cat is being jealous
joy	tweets	new favorite group has to be J*Davey Hi&amp;Low is my shit. why don't the really flygroups come to Miami hell Florida? And no Rock The Bells
joy	tweets	@Candypants2 we did! They came out cold  The cheese sauce was good, though.
joy	tweets	@coebooth Just got it a few hours ago! So not yet!
joy	tweets	@jeanettesanchez lucky you, all we've had is rain in the city today  enjoy! ;)
joy	tweets	acsvxdcbgfn soccer now. shall see young phoebe after D: I don't want her dressed up though
joy	tweets	of course im almost there and theres traffic
joy	tweets	@bjolly086 Now, I can't call your kitten by its new name, because Ryan makes fun of the way I say kitten.
joy	tweets	@iliveinbetween i graduate at 9am on Sunday June 14th...
joy	tweets	... I want to die. I want to TAKE my own life, forever. She's trying to get me to do a duet.
joy	tweets	I'm all stuffted up but I gotta gets up &amp; go netball
joy	tweets	Ugh.  Las #vegas airport is at a &quot;ground stop&quot; which means I'm stuck in the plane on the tarmac (again) at LAX.
joy	tweets	Having internet access on board means I can see what bad weather we are flying into   http://bit.ly/h14Tw
joy	tweets	@kemiFRESH i mean we mite do sumthn.... what u doin hope i get 2 c u b4 u head bak
joy	tweets	@alexxxpatterson we won't be in town  email me if there is another one though.
joy	tweets	Um. Why can't I write smut tonight? I like smut. I want to write smut. Yet, nothing. No smut.
joy	tweets	Ok so any ideas of what to do tomorrow to make it fun? Cause i dont know what to do
joy	tweets	@catrionat7 Yes yes Is. Ima Guna Be On For a While Lol.
joy	tweets	7pm and I'm just now leaving my desk.  And just last week I was on a safari. My how time flies.  What's good for the weekend? JBII
joy	tweets	@ToxicSociopath awww. well before we know it youll be back visiting XD we will hang out constantly and have another heartbreaking goodbye
joy	tweets	I REALLY WANT TO GO TO artesia , cerritos on sunday for QUEST! LOL. imma die if i dont
joy	tweets	@caramp lol you saw where I was going with that...both of my last names are to common nothing special on me
joy	tweets	@DirtyDizco Maaan if I wasnt in pain I'd come. I wanna come  eat some 4 me lol *rolls eyes*
disgust	tweets	@xx_Megan_xx Same! Like the kisses on nights when she wasnt up for eviction! They were very badly edited
joy	tweets	Just got out of work
joy	tweets	im full. i had a tripple thick chocolate milkshake from mcdonalds now i feel sick
joy	tweets	@SuperNinjaMax noooooooooo my parrents found my stash
joy	tweets	@celebritystatus wifeyyyyyy  me no likey u siky
joy	tweets	@doodleworld  Thx had a great day &amp; gonna have a long weekend.  Excited yet I'll be missin my tweeple badly.
joy	tweets	hm i'm happy but i want to join drama practice today !
joy	tweets	Still working in the database and trying to decide what I want to eat.
joy	tweets	@wildcurl7888  Well, I still can't wait for the one shot.
joy	tweets	I want Crimson Gem Saga.  I will just go play RF Guerilla demo repeatedly. I (Mission Failed - YOU DIED) so many times from dicking around
joy	tweets	is sore from weight lifting  However, it's the good kind of sore that gives you man-boobs you can move with the power of your mind alone!
joy	tweets	@LisaSpangenberg sadly @Dawno isn't me. It's some1 w/ 1 follower 1 update &amp; hasn't used Twitter since May 1, '07  I wanted that name, too
joy	tweets	Writing this paper is a lot harder then i thought . LOL
joy	tweets	Saw the UCLA bookstore...now convinced that every single major university has a better bookstore than @ASU   Having fun so far!
joy	tweets	I'm at the anime store iat rivercenter going crazy at all the Pokemon stuff. I wish I had money
joy	tweets	Jeff was right! Call of Duty pwns. Now i just gotta figure out what to do with this xtra copy of Wolvarine I bought earlier this week.
joy	tweets	Is too hot and tummy ache so can't sleep  lots of chem to do tomorro but at least bgt final to look forward to!
joy	tweets	Was outside playing ball with dogs, now all hot and sweaty
joy	tweets	Apparently Paige is partying with Rose Jenn and Adam again, without me   My child has such a wild imagination.  ;)
joy	tweets	@laurabolger Lol what do you mean? I thought you were going to London for it? xD and it is yea  Xx
joy	tweets	wishing Ro was feeling better
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67x8k - WITH MY FRIENDS WERE IN OUR WORK
joy	tweets	today was GOOD  , that little girl hollie in bgt , just me or complete sympahty vote  ! how cute is aidan davis :L? tweet me  x
joy	tweets	@bztak1020 actually, my friend gave me the files today! lol but those are all CDA files... do u know how to convert them to MP3?
joy	tweets	Hey #YEG !!!!! Anyone goin to the Edmonton Energy game and wanna do some live updates? PLEASE!!!! They dont post live scores
disgust	tweets	ugh lost the remote  gotta actually move to change channel wtf #twat
joy	tweets	@_everblue She actually posted again to say that it was the 2nd and not the 4th, so nevermind.
disgust	tweets	Is still stuck in the office working!
joy	tweets	Not going to Suffolk tomorrow.   However, now MB &amp; I are planning a picnic on the Mall with friends Neil &amp; Jodi.
joy	tweets	Standing ovation for Wieters. Nobody was sitting down. Insane. Hit into double play though
joy	tweets	@susansediqe soooo over ppl telling me they went to the tonite show!!!  Ive had dreams of meeting him  I'm embarrassd of that a lil LOL
joy	tweets	At natalies just finished work. Had the most AMAZING peanut butter sandwhich EVER. &lt;3333 I miss your faceeee
joy	tweets	@chris_shields06 good job!  I wish i worked in a zoo
joy	tweets	Doing homework and then going to bed, have to leave at 6:50 tomorrow morning for work  and then i wont be off till 6
joy	tweets	Watching &quot;P.S. I love you&quot;. Eating chinese food. What else is there to do when you're home alone on a Friday night!
joy	tweets	moved the first load of stuff into @cjloe's garage for storage.. now for round two..   me and guys move into our new place on Monday!
joy	tweets	night night twits! im so glad I will be waking up to a saturday off work!! printer has broke though
joy	tweets	Launching fitness video blog with @kimidreams next week, featuring Polar watches, can't afford @bodybugg 's 6 weeks, video every day!
joy	tweets	super frustrated, and taking it out on the one's I love!   I love you, Paul!
joy	tweets	going away party at ambers  road trip tomorrow!
joy	tweets	City Dippin iz u fun, so much eye candy out here...I remember y I miss  LOL
joy	tweets	@Sabrina1989 I thought it was a simple one  I found it hilarious.
joy	tweets	Weekends are Great....if you don't have to work them.
joy	tweets	i was so bored i decided to iron all my baju sklh. thn i realized i hate doing tht. so all i did was iron a sleeve HAHAHA. im off to schl
joy	tweets	@dnbchik ohhh that cant be very fun    but hell you manned it up!!   looks like you got some shit done today!!
joy	tweets	Writers:&quot;They just make me wonder,why are you foisting all the little pipe dreams stories in your head onto other people?&quot; I like writing
joy	tweets	I'll probably have better photos up later today. Took some picks with my big camera too. Camera phone = blury camera
joy	tweets	Dayum, tweets r coming fast, so likely missing a lot.    Plz DM, k?  Oh, is @rod_stewart 4 real?
joy	tweets	the plan was to take a nap (yea I'm still feeling last night) then go watch lakers game smwhere fun. looking like no nap
joy	tweets	@strawbleu Sounds like a useful tip, I most certainly need some stability after this week
joy	tweets	I need a bear hug  and Im going to camp today!!
joy	tweets	@bkkrakora ew, i used to get &quot;suicides&quot; in high school and mix like 5 sodas together. then drink it. i think i remember enjoying it, too.
joy	tweets	@MariaV_ST vaca!! buuu sigo en el work
joy	tweets	@JammieAdams No you are not having my favorite drink without me  lol
joy	tweets	@giselle2323 - Hopefully he won't discover all of my soap opera tweets.
joy	tweets	I need words of inspiration  where's @iamdiddy and @RevRunWisdom when you need them??
joy	tweets	@Linooo Ahhh!  I knowww! I saw it May 5th and 6th in Newcastle and it was so good!!! I'm soo excited for 6th June, as its my bday aswell!
disgust	tweets	Just started feeling bad again  ugh. I hate it when I don't feel good!!
joy	tweets	@staaceeyy weeooow, i feel fat.... i remember when i used to weigh that much  pfffffffffffffffffffffftttttttt long time ago, hahaha
joy	tweets	Feeeel like ima die! Now on my way to rainforest.  !! I need a girls spa day ASAP!
joy	tweets	Setting up bookmarks on my new Blackberry Curve. Now anyone from work can get ahold of me at anytime!
joy	tweets	Sushi w/ @ryan888 well cooked veggie for preggo me  now onto Trolley Car birthday party on McKinney Ave. I actially feel awake for once!
joy	tweets	@Wonder33Woman Yes I did see Mitch Hedberg and the whole floss thing.  He's hilarious.  I &lt;3 him.  Poor guy
joy	tweets	@ktml nice work buying coda dude! It's a great app! Unfortunately, I bought it when it was the full $99USD  #jealous
disgust	tweets	Cleaning the House! Im so boring..
joy	tweets	@tarraxo I'm not sure.  Btw, YAY FOR WICKED TICKETS! That's awesome! When are you going?
joy	tweets	best show of my life. mcfly rocks my world  i wanna meet you guys ;;
joy	tweets	did not get to go see UP!! Oh well ended up going to dinner with Blase and Bridget!
joy	tweets	@dino2gnt Yeah, I'm getting ready to go get pizza. Then nothing to do  Maybe @hazard_2gnt will want to play Xbox.
joy	tweets	@soxdeepinstatic  i know, i would've liked to have been able to play with you all spring semester  meeting was good, just an introduction
joy	tweets	Drew's new songs make me cry.  I miss Thomas already!
joy	tweets	i have to be at work at 5 am  ... thanks to me ppl will be getting their freakin starbucks. peace out ppls!
joy	tweets	@showtime757 I wanna go
joy	tweets	wishing i could go to CaBo tonight
joy	tweets	Oh, but Grease is on VH1! It's almost over, though  http://myloc.me/2215
joy	tweets	it's too beautiful to stay inside
joy	tweets	Finally eating unagi I've been saving up for a while! +udon :] AGH I just realized the band playing at Bear Garden today is one I like!
joy	tweets	@AuthorSaoirse_R Drive-in!? srsly!? *jealous*  I have never ever been to one.  there is one down the rd, but it's no longer operational :|
joy	tweets	hooome from work. why am i awake still? up in 5 hours
joy	tweets	On way to grab @DeejaySpider @ airport. Listenin to #thebeat. There's noooooo way @djflipout would play these mashups.... AVH would be
joy	tweets	so I just had a violent fightclub like sex dream involving heavily tattooed ladies. I didn't wanna wake up.  lol.
joy	tweets	@kidcatastrophe so cool to hear you guys on 104.5! and i can't believe you in were cherry hill a few weeks ago and i missed it  come back
joy	tweets	@Beauabroughton shud up! lol my device thing doesn't work
joy	tweets	Friday!!!!!!!!!! Wooo and nothing to do.  Nuggets better pull it off tonight.
joy	tweets	I love it when it rains on me when im golfing
joy	tweets	@vasilly thanks.  I'm self so I don't see the &quot;my Account&quot; area.  I'll have to dig deeper it seems
disgust	tweets	Not gonna lie, i'm going to miss high school lunches. A lot. Damn.
joy	tweets	There was no traffic at all on my way home and all traffic lights were green.Im afraidIowe karma a big check
joy	tweets	@emilygrace_BHB I went to that concert and I remember Derek and Mark were hosting! I miss seeing BHB  at the grove.
joy	tweets	@hannahgramm Haha damn you not inviting me
joy	tweets	I am finally plugged in to listen to Flashpoints on http//:www.kpfa.org shoutout @norabf and have missed the segment about Chevron
joy	tweets	says Morning.  http://plurk.com/p/x34ap
joy	tweets	i hate my presentation  hahah whatever im glad its over
joy	tweets	just got sold out from UP
joy	tweets	joooooooooooooo!!!!!!!!!!!! studying!!!  to be readdy to go to the party!!!   If they let me go!!  jajaja I think yeaahh!!! \m/!!
joy	tweets	@DD714 Ahh man, and im off NEXT weekend
disgust	tweets	I'm so tired. I don't get how I am. I sat on the lawn mower and didn't push the whole damn thing.
joy	tweets	@BBKwieen all of em! Hahahahaha sry
joy	tweets	Made it to Wisconsin... Now off to Golden Corral again! dang! lol we missed the graduation! tho  Dang!
joy	tweets	@lolbethie that sounds great right about now. It's ridiculously hot in my house
joy	tweets	@Aphrosie It would still involve me standing up. lol. Windows are too high up. Guess im just gonna have to go out
joy	tweets	@WayneDaStar that's a mess  I'll look for it next week
joy	tweets	Just enjoyed 2 steak quesadillas! Kinda mad cause I'm gonna miss the laker game!
joy	tweets	So much happier, despite my looming departure
joy	tweets	Fun Friday night planned...... Spent at work
joy	tweets	@JanuaryParker hey they do have that  but these never bothered me before.
joy	tweets	i'm probably the only person in the world that uses tweetie from my ipod touch &amp; not an iphone  ghetto? haha
joy	tweets	Listening to nin and working on my break. ALMOST as good as being at the show.....  rock out extra hard @SarfaBarfa
joy	tweets	wishing I was attending #beatweetup I even bought a badge
joy	tweets	hi from chile!!! It's 9 deg C  winter's coming....cant wait for cali sun.
joy	tweets	@Hockeyvampiress glad you have a squeee moment good for you-- I just got bills in the mail
joy	tweets	Rushed to get to ups and they close at 7... I got here at 705 after making a wrong turn
joy	tweets	@FenterZ hahaha your gonna beat me again  LOL at james sahal and his &quot;stunnerbum&quot;
joy	tweets	Oops forgot to shave my legs!  Byebye to my favorite cousin   Bklyn two nights in a row... We go hardd!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	Bought some little plastic personal wine bottles at Jewel, perfect for rooftop boozin'! Wish I didn't have to wait so long!
joy	tweets	@davidaldrich_wx Did you see the color of the sky and how it looks in Philly??  It is yellowish/orangeish/brownish looks scary!!  lol
joy	tweets	@Atashas your sister would ! hahah thats so funny !! i thought you liked them
joy	tweets	been working all day, finally relaxing!! i miss you
joy	tweets	@Anthony_y_Tony I had Pad Thai 3 times last night  ragoons LOL yumb
disgust	tweets	aw now where's that little asian girl who runs round pooping her pants in public? i miss laughing at her.
joy	tweets	@jeseekuhluv Yea I think I waited to long. oh well. thats cool. I should have signed up for more but I'm already done with core classes
joy	tweets	The nocturnal serendipity... Kashmir is an important means to that end...
joy	tweets	@LovelyAaris That's not fair! I'm hungry as hell
disgust	tweets	got new sneaks today..can't wait to break them in..stupid rain
joy	tweets	poker night instead of kate voegele.... i guess it'll do....
joy	tweets	@LizMyxx okay...just eat cookies &amp;&amp; not share with me lol
joy	tweets	@spootychild omfg I have been DOWNING them they are so tasty. I ate almost all of them with Lo
joy	tweets	passed my drivers test! i can drive!...oh wait, i don't turn 16 till october
joy	tweets	@mfrancella I have yet to even get out to play this year  soon I hope!
joy	tweets	@aub311 Dang me too! It's only a 4 hour drive! Too bad it's my daughters 1st bday party  it's hosted by Donnie
joy	tweets	@HelenCrozier Yes- It was fun to connect with her! Pls tell her hello- can't find her on Twitter.
joy	tweets	a reply from @zackalltimelow would  make my life, he replies usually to the people who call him gay, then he tells them he willblok them
joy	tweets	1.2 mile run and 450 meter swim, things are looking better and better... Laying off the bike today
joy	tweets	@Charified sadly, I don't   hehe
joy	tweets	@BuggysRose  Haha,I just may do that,yo!
joy	tweets	@momfluential That turtle on the side of the road just passed you, too.
joy	tweets	Feeling like Romeo and Juliet with Bryant and Wallinwood as the Montagues and Capulets...   #fb
disgust	tweets	I need to go ouuut. I'm so bored.
joy	tweets	@PerezHilton well even with her breakdown she was better than the other acts unfortunately! Britain's got very little talent
joy	tweets	1st- TY to those who follow back.  2nd - grrr to those who don't, cuz it messes up being able to follow others u want to when ur at 2000+
joy	tweets	inFamous on the PS3 = AWESOME. My eyes are so sore now though
joy	tweets	@owenong looks good ... making me hungry but boy stll asleep
joy	tweets	Hey had some fun with friends !!!!!Now cleaning
joy	tweets	@saramcdonald23 soooo jelous of you right now
joy	tweets	@iAlejandro: unfortunately not.  I have to take it to a repair shop or replace it.
joy	tweets	@dopequrlbree Awww  You'll Be Fine...
joy	tweets	@funkylovin ah mine is never home before 8   I handed off the kids and grabbed the bottle of malibu and a coke..momma getting drinky :para
joy	tweets	@katabolickatie not on my tv !    im watching a that 70's show marathon !
joy	tweets	@shawnsafaridon lol, i've done that one b4  i'm a victim 2 that! lol
joy	tweets	Mosque and mini-golf! haha I tied for 1st. It looks like the Yankees aren't playing tonight   but I'll just play Fifa! ~Zade~
joy	tweets	i want to go out tonight, but i ain't go no money and no one to go with   any takers???
joy	tweets	@pleazurs Woot freaking hoo, tho Mad World isn't doing well on the iTunes top #100 chart.
disgust	tweets	@Candyland3 thats terrible.
joy	tweets	Am now a member of International Thespian Society Troupe #6492!! Now if I can only make my family stop fighting....sigh
joy	tweets	@Lea_Ada_Franco I am working again!  Woo hoo!  Alas, I was unable to obtain an Elita-1 for your daughter.  It's $80!
joy	tweets	the good thing of having a fever is feeling cold, especially in such hot weather. I think I'm hallucinating lol  .
joy	tweets	@cassapel Damn, I got all excited for nothing  hahaha
joy	tweets	tomorrow valeria's lunch!!! going to get my hair done but im arraving late   got my cousins babtizm or whatever you spell it
joy	tweets	You know funny thing about everyone packing for E3 is that I am packing to go to mexico... not E3
joy	tweets	enjoy the laker game for me guys! since i'll be at work
joy	tweets	@ a_mccallie WOW... I am replaced already??? I thought I am coming back with my steaks
joy	tweets	@Jonasbrothers friends of mine just meet you today..... I can't wait until it is my turn
joy	tweets	@Edit4321 cont...and then it goes to waste  no one likes stale sweets. That reminds me of this cute song called Stale Cupcakes lol
joy	tweets	they were actually there omg apparently a relative of marc went to my school lol
joy	tweets	@shortcakemlt the movie on the plane is Mall Cop- (but i saw it with the nephews already
joy	tweets	@PassionMD hahahaha! i haven't been out with my friends since sunday! i'm so lame
disgust	tweets	Waiting for the dang pizza to cook. It's almost 9 and we still have not eaten wifey fail. Did I mention I feel like crap
joy	tweets	I haven't gone sheesha smoking in a loooong time  Maybe tomorrow? &gt; *starts planning*
joy	tweets	@Jon_Aston Still looking  I filled out quite a few applications last week and once I get home I'll continue.
disgust	tweets	1-Pendulum = awesome! 2-Goodbyes suck  3-Shut up plz. 4-Toy Story 3!!  5-JB 3D MOVIE 2MORO! 6-I'm tired. 7-Aaaand I'm out.
joy	tweets	@JESS_TRUESDALE lmao! you a mess.  Im gonna be in ATL in a few weeks
joy	tweets	@xoshattered_  i missed you. today was the greatest day ever. im burnt and shit lmfao. but it will be a nice tan. 11 rides in 6 hrs!  &lt;3
joy	tweets	@skoduri I SLEPT THROUGH MY ALARMS  woke up at 6 instead of 4  i feel like a complete tool
disgust	tweets	@DanielFielding i tried listenin to music 4 half an hour! Tried readin a really boring book-still wide awake!
joy	tweets	@mileycyrus cool and aww
joy	tweets	OMG! I'm Back. I Know I Was Out For A Week. Because My Brother Took His Laptop With Him To Mexico. So I Couldn't Be Online.
joy	tweets	just got home from a nice party, just not tired yet
joy	tweets	screw it lemme click on a ticket. preetttty sure i can make it. might not make it for vermillion lies opening tho
joy	tweets	@albertposis congratulations ! you guys finish a month early than we do. booo
joy	tweets	@jmallen1012 aww i'm sorry   glad mommy took care of you. erin is in for some fun if there's a bug on you in colorado
joy	tweets	Double rainbow above the Organs. Pretty, but doesn't take the edge off my $460 grocery tab.
joy	tweets	@albertposis congratulations ! you guys finish a month earlier than we do. booo
joy	tweets	No more high school...
joy	tweets	victory for the bulldogs was celebrated by 3 white chocolate cheesecakes  nom nom nom WHATTA FATTYYY
joy	tweets	@souljaboytellem holllaaa.. i dont know what ur up doing but im trying to finish up some work for school... bout to go to bed though
joy	tweets	@_everaldo on my MacBook I run Linux with Parallels and on my iMac I use VMware Fusion and both are great, especially in &quot;Unity&quot;-mode.
joy	tweets	I'll go now.I'll watch teen nick!
joy	tweets	@saraLDS Thanks for that, Sara
joy	tweets	@Tony_Mandarich well welcome back from the dark side!
joy	tweets	@sai_shediddy lol , you gotta share too
joy	tweets	first up, make up for lost time with jelly. Jalan jalan just the 2 of us  and the rollerblading with my pumpkin. Happeh
joy	tweets	@redrobinrockn next one for you!
joy	tweets	I cannot wait to go to FLORIDA!!
joy	tweets	Welcome @doeko ! Really glad to know you here. Your products rox man
joy	tweets	All zombie songs are now dedicated to @HAMMER32  ? http://blip.fm/~5jbib
joy	tweets	is happy  and clean, squeaky clean
joy	tweets	@Tottie Thank you, thank you!! Thought this is where all the cool kids hang out now, hehe  xoxo!
joy	tweets	@aruky Yes, this NBA song is great!!!  Got an old funny NBA cheerleader remix song. Ohrwurm of the day &quot;colorblind&quot;.
joy	tweets	NEW LOGO! for all the Web, Cheak it!...gAllethOo
joy	tweets	@deuhlig thanks for sharing
joy	tweets	@khodgkin1 Oh! Good idea about putting them on ice cream
joy	tweets	@girlfromthemoon ...i had a yay moment today  YAY hope you did too!
joy	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg sounds like you all had a great night . i'm glad it was successful
joy	tweets	Thank god camera fixed itself. I want a new ipod
joy	tweets	Woop, have just bought the Elliot Minor album on itunes. Its finally working for me!!
joy	tweets	@mikebreed There's a reason why they're so cute at times - to prevent you from throwing them overboard when they scream every 2 hrs...
joy	tweets	@nicolesssss  no, dayuuum 5o'clock was better
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie I'm watching some of your videos in YouTube. You're funny David.  Oh and TALENTED of course!
joy	tweets	@VIbeauty we will work on that mama  sweetdreams!
joy	tweets	nothings better then going out for chinese at the supperinn with ma fave cousins at 1am
joy	tweets	New @shackletonmusic single bought! It is awesome!! Well done boys!
joy	tweets	@amyyyxoxo ahh I gtg but pls help me with number 3 I'll come back later to see what u said  haha plz and thank u
joy	tweets	@zhayrar lol well thank you
joy	tweets	Can't wait for SYTYCD tour with Ashleighhh &amp; Izzayyy
joy	tweets	finally gone!!!
joy	tweets	@CeesDope_  ahhhhaaa bangbros.com! psshh nigga its all about onionbooty.com
joy	tweets	good job!
joy	tweets	I love the sunshine and the happiness it brings
joy	tweets	@heyrbk ohh shardup! hehe. hes hot lah, gotta admeeet! bleh.
joy	tweets	@living_autism BUT on the bright side you're on twitter! Morning!
joy	tweets	@Petty01 Happy Birthday and cheers to PAO!!
joy	tweets	@geoffsays Thanks for the link Geoff
joy	tweets	aaahhh, showers are great
joy	tweets	i won because im awesome
joy	tweets	@gerdiend Woman!!  hope you have a relaxing monday as I have, cu later on this sunny monday @westerkerk
joy	tweets	finally having my cup of coffee!!!
joy	tweets	Just hangin out at home, watchin twiligghhttt ( and readin it (AGAIN!!) lol School sukked today Bahaha
joy	tweets	@brittannyy14 yea i know right! i love that song!
joy	tweets	@antsrants it's driving me insane!  all i want is a lie in!!!
joy	tweets	For @mizhalle  ? http://blip.fm/~5jbp3
joy	tweets	@carmenforward no way - those are great words.  Boys don't get to own them.    Oh and was it your bday?
joy	tweets	Hi all, just recovering from a party, looking forward to an exciting bank holiday around the diy shops...life cant get much better.surely
joy	tweets	You won't believe how long this took to achieve... Still all done and my car is happy again  - Photo: http://bkite.com/0783l
joy	tweets	omg, I never knew that Wikipedia also lists the shades of colours, it's cool
joy	tweets	@mskiannathediva  He's awesome... Have you worked with him before? He's a good friend.
joy	tweets	Well Done , Visteon Belfast, 2 years salary paid. Just shows what happens when you stand up for yourself
joy	tweets	its my bday!!! I'm gettin older!
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie I tweet sooo much about you. Gahd.  Hahaha!
joy	tweets	@williamduncan the archetype thing was for a comm. class that studied archetypes in popular media. reading your links now, thanks
joy	tweets	@algibbs thanks for that, now i learned something new today  enjoy.
joy	tweets	Hey Dubbo RSL turkey roast circa 1995. Know it's been a while, just wanted to let you know I still think about you from time to time
joy	tweets	@SashaKane I am absolutely craving a brownie with ice cream right now. FedEx some over!
joy	tweets	@iloveicetea haha when is it? good luck babe  &amp; UPLOAD A PHOTO, WILL YA ?
joy	tweets	and these awesome tweeples too!  @xoNessCullenxo @xoJasperHalexo @xoEmmettC35xo @oxTanyaDenaliox @xoEsmeCullenxo
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie OK David, talk later  Have a great dayyyy ay ay ay ay
joy	tweets	Enjoyed the Waller reunion very much! The Wallers are back in town
joy	tweets	@hrcolors Maybe it had a hot date with a nice little Cesna.
joy	tweets	@kyspeaks  Yah, they have footlong sausage too mah. But Halal place..piggy sausages are bigger
joy	tweets	@galacticfaerie Sounds great. I'm looking forward to it then
joy	tweets	@moonfrye LOL and that's why I use my iPod touch
joy	tweets	hehe tweet time... bastos talaga chux
joy	tweets	...love and wanted to share with my followers. feeling inspirational. ive had a long day.
joy	tweets	@velvetella Bye ! Have a great time being whisked away
joy	tweets	@BoomKatt yes yes I AM, networking whore to the fullest.......and this girl is rih next to me
joy	tweets	ohh. i didnt double tweet a while ago, did i? now i did.
joy	tweets	@alicedric can't wait for it. i love your scripts. honestly, you should have a future career as a script writer  - Stock Twits
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie if you don't mind, change your profile pic with a picture of you in UK. It'll be fun
joy	tweets	@MrMaxROI Hey, it's good to see you here! Will now follow you. Would be nice to have a photo!
joy	tweets	just woke up, no school today, we are free
joy	tweets	im still waitin for my girl to come home...i wanna go shopping
joy	tweets	Tweet you later, have a wonderful day.
joy	tweets	Got my braces tightened today. Then I got McDonalds! HAHA  Sport tomorrow yay yay yay! Netball tryouts.. wish me luck to make the team! :l
joy	tweets	@Rosiecosy Thanks for sympathy. It wasn't too bad until about an hour ago when I started thinking of the appointment tomorrow.
joy	tweets	tafe was actually quite good. for once
joy	tweets	True to form, Bank Holiday Monday looks like it might be rainy. Hope it holds off til later, family&amp;friends plan walk and picnic today
joy	tweets	@MODELCHiCK2 thank u soooooo much lil mama xoxo
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie Yeahhh you do that lol
joy	tweets	Not really  but its work so yea kinda
joy	tweets	@oliyoung it's stable, faster than 2.x and working.
joy	tweets	@wickedgirl24 glad you like it
joy	tweets	@RealBillBailey haven't read that book, but heard of it. Feed, spay, love is a great motto for pet owners  although there is more involved
joy	tweets	Photo: Great night.  http://tumblr.com/xmo1pgymj
joy	tweets	would like june the nineteenth to hurry it self up, as she is waiting very impatiently to see wes carr
joy	tweets	@robinmeure &gt; &quot;live Q&amp;A 24/7&quot;... definitely the best part of twitter for me
joy	tweets	@amber_benson  Woohoo! Well Done! I started Macarena-ing too
joy	tweets	@jkreeftmeijer Yup theory is GREAT but the reality is beyond imagination...  I also made the same planning not knowing VS will FAIL on me
joy	tweets	Bank holiday mondaaaaaay   Exams tomorrow  D:
joy	tweets	@vene2ia Thanks!  I am doing good... Did you read any of my blog posts?
joy	tweets	@Gennargh I also have a brain tumor called Jeffery.
joy	tweets	is excited. Lots of good things happening work-wise here in Melbourne
joy	tweets	recovering from mexican fiesta. Had a bit too much of a good time!
joy	tweets	New baby arrived yesterday. A fab baby boy at 2.8 kilo  Very proud and happy
joy	tweets	which is why i can't wait till i move out of home and life by myself next year  WACKY ADVENTURES EVERY DAY!!!!!
joy	tweets	is choosing to do britney for the dance showcase! yesss  cant wait. 58 days....
joy	tweets	#musicmonday Nicest Thing from Kate Nash
joy	tweets	still awake..doing my assignments and playing virtual farming
joy	tweets	@vene2ia Great!
joy	tweets	I think more people would buy the Slap chop, if the commercial was like this: http://bit.ly/vQIUf
joy	tweets	@BearNoiz Played An.World, played Flashback, played Starcon 2, played Fallout, played every Psygnosis game out for the Amiga and the ST
joy	tweets	just watched JONAS. It was funny.
joy	tweets	@damohopo Come to Rochester with me and Nikki. Beer and a Hog Roast always helps.
joy	tweets	@mariekehardy this will make you feel better. Will down a cocktail or 2 in your honour. Now get retorting  http://twitpic.com/4j91r
joy	tweets	badminton marathon tonight!  please cooperate feet!
joy	tweets	watching a movie and rocking my baby kitty who is asleep in my sling hanging from my neck. So cute
joy	tweets	@PeopleBrowsr nice new profile picture! Glad to see some friends in there
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie  AWOOOOGAHHHHHH!!!! heheee hope you get some decently priced breakfast real quick, David
joy	tweets	morning everyone! another dat of school
joy	tweets	@shaundiviney THATS BETTER! lol
joy	tweets	@JuwalBose oops, eldhose bhai uploaded the same too, Did you read the hindu's article on BarCamp? Binny rocks man
joy	tweets	@ginny9577 I'm researching NYC stuff.
joy	tweets	supernatural is back on tonight !!
joy	tweets	but omg mummy bought me ice-cream!
joy	tweets	@deversum good morning Hazel  caffeine-shot?
joy	tweets	@niuts14 Our weekend was also great... two friends of Julia were here for four days...
joy	tweets	I'm excited for the things for Jay's room to arrive
joy	tweets	Ah. Bank holiday morning...reading Elle in bed and getting excited for a roast dinner in Sheering later
joy	tweets	really really wants to go and see Coraline.
joy	tweets	@pixelbase @steverumsby I care about Eurovision! And yes, they have a 50% jury-based vote this year  #eurovision2009
joy	tweets	because he @the_real_nash wants to be an honorary Filipino  i'll follow him now ;)) thanks @daxvelando!
joy	tweets	looking forward to coffee and driving tomorrow. really
joy	tweets	@Emmmaa___ haha was it good? i bet it was
joy	tweets	mmm  eating tostitos &amp;&amp; piknik with spinach dip from S&amp;R. &lt;3
joy	tweets	Cuba trip booked
joy	tweets	@chainsawchelsea If it's any consolation, you're definitely one of the hottest GG's, IMHO
joy	tweets	@khali_blache Night! Doze well.
joy	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg  &quot;donnie rocks&quot; if u could only here it my 2year old runs around every where sayin &quot;donnie rocks&quot;
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4j95z - I don't know why, but I LOLd.
joy	tweets	@merdujapon Really all that? I'll look for it and will report back
joy	tweets	@Somaya_Reece naw missed it and the video cool looking sexy
joy	tweets	@maydbs Its looking like June - nice right?
disgust	tweets	#todo Cleaning the Apartment - again - who keeps making this mess? oh yeah .. me. $10 + hug for the person to help come clean
joy	tweets	Prom was awesome.
joy	tweets	Joey's getting a new lizard... This should be fun  x
joy	tweets	9100 tweets....just living the rockstar life one tweet at a time.
joy	tweets	possessed beyond certainty that she has made the rite decision
joy	tweets	@TerriCook  Well I hope you have had a good weekend and even more so have a good day at work 2moro its already monday here,so far so good
joy	tweets	@RealBillBailey good moring mr bailey, it is my birthday today
joy	tweets	spending a 'girly' day wif my four big sisters! shopping. pedicures and dyeing eachother's hair. ohh yeah
joy	tweets	@johna404 Hi I have uploaded 5 completely new Chinese Lessons on www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn Please feel free to watch and enjoy
joy	tweets	Would really like to buy death note 1 &amp; 2 later this week  I loved those movies!
joy	tweets	@ELLISNYC we should all be down to earth. don't none of us walk on water  I'm just some horny nerd trying to find my way thru life lol
joy	tweets	@Abbie12 Thanks! Welcome back!
joy	tweets	@roel247 Thank you good sir, it has been a surprisingly good afternoon, very productive
joy	tweets	@Ryanimay Welcome home!  Glad you made it home safe!
joy	tweets	i finished new moon  in 1 day all up. maybe less, im quite proud, now who wants to lend me eclipse haha
joy	tweets	Ay dios mio! 2 weeks left of college!!! AH CAN'T WAIT!!
joy	tweets	@mileycyrus i dnt think i can ever get tired of&quot;The Climb&quot;its just 1 of those sngs u'll always remember  ...
joy	tweets	@eltonmcmanus  &amp; to you matey
joy	tweets	I go to &quot;User Experience Roundtable Hamburg - Detlev Fischer on Accessibility, BITV Test&quot; https://www.xing.com/events/333622 Don't miss!
joy	tweets	@mnoxon The fans have found you!!
joy	tweets	just got back from the long weekend
joy	tweets	Watching Dr. Horrible with @Bobwieck. @jenhansen don't be mad!
joy	tweets	Weekend is over :\ Hope you all had a great weekend
joy	tweets	Sleepy Tabz is heading to bed.  Fun night! Listened through the next episode of Joss'd!
joy	tweets	Hello  Back to work today after a week of vacation !
joy	tweets	@roynuj thank you  Feel much more relaxed now that everything isn't as scary as in the beginning
joy	tweets	wlcome @johiw44 - i'm proud of my girlfriend
joy	tweets	Just finished studying for Abnormal Psychology. Eek. I still have two more days. I'll do more than fine
joy	tweets	toodaayy!
joy	tweets	@JennaMadison Ooh, coffee!  Great idea...  want one??
joy	tweets	@amber_benson Looks like fun doing the Macarena with a live band!
joy	tweets	I know what would make me really tired, put me to sleep and I would sleep good!  ...RICE!!! Lmao!
joy	tweets	@jnacool I dont understand sensex..but wow!
joy	tweets	Good day today tomorrow will be even better
joy	tweets	@djinfrared Sounds pretty cool. Great job man!
joy	tweets	@jasonhoun Haha of course! That's my favorite album of all time
joy	tweets	@LadyAnne525 It will give me lulz from time to time.
joy	tweets	@EMarketingGuru Hi I have uploaded 5 completely new Chinese Lessons on www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn Please feel free to watch and enjoy
joy	tweets	dinner was awesome. Im so happy my mom enjoyed her bday  I was able to spoil her yay lol
joy	tweets	@thakkar I knw maan! i was gonna say the same thing. We both would become omelettes and others would become chapathis
joy	tweets	@pokr thanks for the retweet  poker is the best card game on earth
joy	tweets	@QuestCon That gave me a great smile. Nice way to end the day. You are so right
joy	tweets	lovely night of steve-o and family guy. off to bed.
joy	tweets	@feedmecupcakes I just wanted to say, that you have the best screen name ever. That is all.
joy	tweets	Ah, the bank holiday shift at work. What fun
joy	tweets	@HOTTVampChick Excellent, he will never know, lmao.
joy	tweets	Wrapped up some html/java work now spending the night dabbling in some flash intros
joy	tweets	1 more day!
joy	tweets	@rajrikhy Hi I have uploaded 5 completely new Chinese Lessons on www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn Please feel free to watch and enjoy
joy	tweets	I've been slacking on the blips... but a nice mellow one before I go to sleep.  ? http://blip.fm/~5jcfo
joy	tweets	@prieurdp awesome... let us know how the cloud setup goes, I'm very keen on trying it myself as well
joy	tweets	yeah so Prom Night is now the Craft (good movie)
joy	tweets	@hokulii Thanks. End up going to Makino Chaya
joy	tweets	okay, really going now...STOP MAKING ME LAUGH LIKE THAT!!
joy	tweets	@Airbase woOt!
joy	tweets	Kicking like crazy.
joy	tweets	morning! just got my coffee
joy	tweets	@zombiegrrl99 thanks, i feel a lot better now.. but it hurt like hell!!!  good luck with the lousy student writing.
joy	tweets	Headed up to WMC for the day. Hopefully I'll have enough time to swing by Chinatown on the way home. I'm in the mood for duck!
joy	tweets	Watched Yes Man, it was good  http://tinyurl.com/dbrc88
joy	tweets	it's a perfect day to throw back your head and kiss it all good bye - love it, so cheerful!!  ? http://blip.fm/~5jckp
joy	tweets	may the fourth be with you! happy star wars day
joy	tweets	@Mandarific well on a day off you owe it to yourself to sleep in late
joy	tweets	@miss_tattoo Hey girl. I'm a new follower - I think it's awesome you've gotten the chance to get so close to Donnie. Very cool!!
joy	tweets	Just got back from the karaoke bar in the metreon!!! Watching millionaire matchmaker
joy	tweets	@dannnnnniiiie lol brandy and mr whiskers is on
joy	tweets	@onein36million Hi I have uploaded 5 completely new Chinese Lessons on www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn Please feel free to watch and enjoy
joy	tweets	@Karen230683 morning  hope u r well.. i'm off to bed soon!
joy	tweets	@pauliniunia its the best show EVER!
joy	tweets	@AlviHalderman Hi I have uploaded 5 completely new Chinese Lessons on www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn Please feel free to watch and enjoy
joy	tweets	Monday morning bathing - soooo relaxing! If I was a lady of luxury I would start every day like this
joy	tweets	@barbsaka I love finding regional groups of Twitterers! Glad I could connect you with a few new people
joy	tweets	@alivicwil She's so funny!!! I wish she were my grandma
joy	tweets	The sun is shining
joy	tweets	@amber_benson Loved it! You continue to delight us Amber.    Great job on the backing and the video by @adambusch. Kudos.
joy	tweets	ehh i need a break. gonna do 3pg essay 2m before work at 5. going to bed now. gym in the morning! nightttt
joy	tweets	@jaackyx ha you'll do fine! just be positive!  &amp;aha i know huh. wht a long conversation. i remeber you and allyson did even lnger ones! x]
joy	tweets	@mafraederscheid did the house sale go OK? Hope so, really like your daily painting today, have a creative day
joy	tweets	@Amaury_Polanco Hi I have uploaded 5 completely new Chinese Lessons on www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn Please feel free to watch and enjoy
joy	tweets	@alsprincess I break some rules and don't take tension for them  .....
joy	tweets	MY GOSHHH :3 A NEW FOLLOWER  hi there! i won't rape you! i lie. &gt;:]
joy	tweets	@girlwhoshould but it's fun when they blatantly ignore the advice
joy	tweets	Editors read this and nod, writers read this and take notes.  http://tinyurl.com/crm4c2
joy	tweets	@xMyLifesAStoryx well uhm i guess u pretty do now dont u? lol but it still sounded good
joy	tweets	@DebPenner Deb,, I am looking forward to exploring simple=ology/Mark Joyner.  I'll be back in about 10 hours.
joy	tweets	@DarryleP Am busy yes...But then always am. Hope you had a great time traveling.  Where did you go?  Welcome back!
joy	tweets	Getting my self a nice cup of tea and turn on some music
joy	tweets	@StDAY Dude, that is eerie. Good song though, and a good movie.
joy	tweets	Zelda Fans!!! pand_i - Zelda: The minnish cap, and a want for more music taste: Zelda = epic  I&amp;#.. http://tinyurl.com/d7jvop
joy	tweets	@jason_2008 Well, having to revise them!  Was to do some more gardening, now, I guess hoovering and some warcraft  Not played in a week !
joy	tweets	@SteffaniYu haha! i see...  go, wear BLUE! ) heey, ur watching JONAS! hahaha ) haven't watched any ep yet.. hope it shows here soon!:p
joy	tweets	@gi_ri_ja good morning, It's nice to see you!
joy	tweets	@magullo thank you alot
joy	tweets	chillin with the neighbor
joy	tweets	So happy that it's FINALLY May!    The Indy 500.  Was there for the horrors of 1973, yet I still remain held captive by Indy's spirit...
joy	tweets	Really this time. G'night. I have my new song of the week in the morning!
joy	tweets	Built a mini CDN over the past few days.. only has 3 locations (AU, EU, US) but it has GeoIP - quite fun to meddle with
joy	tweets	But on the bright side...no school
joy	tweets	@cosmicgirlie good luck!! How exciting
joy	tweets	lol haha very funnyyy lol im talking to my bestfriend ashleyyyy!!!
joy	tweets	@bbrooke yeah surrrrrously. we win
joy	tweets	Waking up early to go to the gym
joy	tweets	@codingvictim nice to have you back
joy	tweets	at school... can't wait to get  out of here today...get my tattoo at 3
joy	tweets	Having rice crispies this morning  Brings back some good memories!
joy	tweets	woo well done nadine
joy	tweets	That's the Birthday Boy's iPod Touch and DSi set-up and sorted. Just to think I would have been happy with a ball + boots at that age!
joy	tweets	@AmineB perfect!
joy	tweets	@CHIOMA_ yeeeee  Haha. The funniest thing is when dudes that cant ball bring their hot gfs along so they can watch them get murked!
joy	tweets	@interpunkt wow that was easy! Thank you
joy	tweets	@Trekkygeek Aye, May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	@mzjennx uhh, congrats for your two years anniversary
joy	tweets	Off for a bit of a motorcycle trip today!
joy	tweets	@janevans35 LOL I love my MacBook too. Oh and my iMac. Can't decide which I love more. OK 24&quot; iMac trumps 13&quot; MacBook
joy	tweets	Laying on my bed. ONE spot smells like vanilla.  awesome
joy	tweets	@ohmoss curing le hangover from an epic night, bruised 'n battered from a hectic go-karting session. pretty satisfied thank you very much
joy	tweets	Getting the FAB portraits ready to upload today
joy	tweets	bed time! night yall!
joy	tweets	@MikeyAllStars  We are of like minds this evening , my dear!
joy	tweets	@myucan91 wahahahaha!! i wanna naaaaa!!! well...hapit na i guess. hahahaha ) yes, now we all know!!! hahahaha lol ) NARN! haha joke
joy	tweets	I like airports.  I can't fucking wait until friday! I want it to be friday right freakin now!
joy	tweets	Awake still O_o, breeding for perfect or close to perfect IVs on a pikachu  don't know what that means? Google it or wait for my articles
joy	tweets	@akmourad Hey what's up? My name is Caleb and I'm your newest follower!!!
joy	tweets	do some research for my article
joy	tweets	@cherylberyls okaaayyyyy... that was very informative.  proves that digestion doesn't take place in the throat i guess.
joy	tweets	Yay! Good way to end the night.
joy	tweets	I proudly declare that i no longer haf 'live fish' phobia. Lol. I love em fishies..
joy	tweets	chillin with christina and diana
joy	tweets	@joek949 I'm okay thanks. No job yet but I'll keep going until I get one! Are you actually following me yet BTW?
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day. May the 4th be with you!  Nice that we get a holiday to celebrate  #fb
joy	tweets	@prayagn I think we have it pretty much figured out. @adawada added a box in the Helsinki group where you can see the tweets
joy	tweets	@Cody_K Why thank you ver much!  I appreci-fuckin-ate the compliment. I do my level best, you know. Can't let mother down.
joy	tweets	@heyshanny I can't wait either!!!!! your so welcome  YAY!!!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	@larainefan She does especially Pink ones LOL  What beautiful creatures they are!
joy	tweets	Ill have a photo up tomorrow! Kay
joy	tweets	@crazytwism haha.. good for you
joy	tweets	Bit of soul time 4 this mama  will visialize next living environent. Speak soon.
joy	tweets	@ProudKiwi thanks for the message - just worked out how to see them and reply!
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie See you on may 16!!
joy	tweets	Cape Town is beautiful! Sun is shining, amazing landscape and everything is &quot;easy going&quot;!
joy	tweets	in the airport!!!  only 8 hours til hoommee!
joy	tweets	Goodmorning tweedles  very happy mood, i think i will always be after this past weekend. lol vids of the 'BEYONCE WEEKND' coming soon.
joy	tweets	no school today, teacher cancelled the lesson  chillin'
joy	tweets	went to eastgardens and saw a lot of hillsong pastors there Now im going to Nicks for dinner. Cant wait to talk to you soon @sherrymacs
joy	tweets	nice weather today in Alex
joy	tweets	Dhellohannah5 can you please follow me  i need more followers haha
joy	tweets	Now I have to think of things to say    And before that I have to make super chunk chocolate muffins with my kids
joy	tweets	@Jonasbrothers Cant wait &amp;&amp; Cant wait to see the 3d concert experience (i live in the uk) the was the trailer at the cinema yesterday.
joy	tweets	@shakedxit23 I'll save you
joy	tweets	Eh, I've gotta go to bed anyways. Goodnight.
joy	tweets	Is ending the day with another walk nice walk and then some gelato
joy	tweets	Monday morning lying in bed instead of working is great, more bank holidays required
joy	tweets	just woke up with a cat in my face  haha
joy	tweets	Got the BrainBone daily question right!  - http://tinyurl.com/c9ryqc
joy	tweets	Heeey, we won ice hockey....we are winners!!
joy	tweets	@marismith - just took over the #1 Most Endorsed spot on twindexx.com - thanks to the endorsement by @danholmesiMIND
joy	tweets	finally leaving this place! woohoo! school time!
joy	tweets	@Lauratheexpat isn't a bit of little britain in all of us?
disgust	tweets	@TrafficMike irregularly. And Im (half-assedly) working on an essay. by saying half-assedly I really mean not at all. Words not even open
joy	tweets	@pandalion WOW! Totally awesome! Action Guinea Pigs! Want to go and see it now, NOW! Do you think we'd be allowed to take Lance?
joy	tweets	@techvideo Hi, I teach some Chinese lessons on youtube... Feel free to have a look  www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn
joy	tweets	@threatbot It's going to be a fun night and I'm helping host it!!!
joy	tweets	@Enchanted_Doll Yes! I live in Milwaukee and would love to attend a closing talk
joy	tweets	Finally sleep time
joy	tweets	lol  Check this video out -- New Minute Maid Commercial http://tinyurl.com/cplt7p
joy	tweets	ok that is a simple smoke generator ... but works and mae a spot relly more interesting .
joy	tweets	@xMyrthe you writing fanfic? me read!
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day, may the 4th be with you  my lil' 12yr old bro is at home playing with a lego AT-AT and dozens of stormtroopers.
joy	tweets	@johnreppion also thanks for coming and playing the party games! The pics are good
joy	tweets	@LoveLoyaltyLife Very impressive  I'm the same way. 100%
joy	tweets	1 lovely one before waking up
joy	tweets	FINALLY have a working (subbed!) copy of Pika?Nichi.   Heeeee.
joy	tweets	@robbcox that made me laugh.  Sorry Grets, but you are not going to the Pool Room.
joy	tweets	@3mr_amr i'm here  haha
joy	tweets	mondays agenda: last class/final of the semester, work, sorority meeting, happy hour.
joy	tweets	@epicsoul believe it or not, SPOTTED DICK is an english dish   http://tinyurl.com/aq8zg
joy	tweets	@NimbleRareFox wow that's quite a long time for studying  Good luck with the job hunting though.Yes also a Mac user (iMac) this side hehe
joy	tweets	yaayy, cannot wait for today girls!  gotta get dressed this early, because were going early!
joy	tweets	Good morning
joy	tweets	All moved in to our new apartment. So exciting
joy	tweets	I  have always been a sucker for the sound of an acoustic guitar!
joy	tweets	I AM OFFICIALLY CELEBRATING MY 400TH TWEET. Wow! I am so proud  Its great.
joy	tweets	Watched Kunguma poovum konjuma puravum... Liked it very much!  excellent cinematography!!!
joy	tweets	good morning world
joy	tweets	@ohmonika babe text me your email address so i can send it over
joy	tweets	loves it that the first Monday of May is a Bank Holiday!  http://plurk.com/p/roxar
joy	tweets	@emalyse David Aaronovitch is always worth making an exception for  (Good morning, by the way)
joy	tweets	If anyone know anyone that made aliyah with the help of Nefesh BNefesh please contact me. I would love to talk with them.
joy	tweets	Design galore! Yayyyyyyy  progress beyond my imagination. Now...to get my flattie to sort out the Internet to send orders out!
joy	tweets	it's nice to leave the office when the sun is still up
joy	tweets	Brian is teaching me soccer!! Lots of fun
joy	tweets	@TheAppleInsider I will later today since I have a planning for today
joy	tweets	@girlsmadethis i want all kinds of designer suggestions darl  any and all. mens, womens, anything! formal/street/alternate. whatever!
joy	tweets	It's raining that fine rain!!! U know the fine rain that wets you the most
joy	tweets	Morning Ali a big thank you for yesterday love you always xxxx. You out on the bike today? Don't forget to get a helmet ok
joy	tweets	@mjasenn i totally owe you a week of on-call duties.  i appreciate not having those while jill is in town
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you! Happy Star Wars Day twirps!  ROFL
joy	tweets	Going to shopping place thingie! BRB LATERZ!
joy	tweets	@taufiqz I watched that too! I liked it
joy	tweets	@kadambariyer thanks.. that was quick..
joy	tweets	@flickstack hehe i will never thorw out these shoes  i'm listening to varsity fanclub surprise surprise  sway sway baby is awesome
joy	tweets	@rosieroserosie can't believe i wasn't following you! am now  have an anatomy prac tmw so tonight i'm all about structr of the lwr limb
joy	tweets	@chaddlesm Good Luck
joy	tweets	thanks for the raspberry-Laced Vanilla Cake
joy	tweets	Also with the not driving part i could afford a laptop. Also living with a roommate i would save even more
joy	tweets	@ddlovato Your second episode of Sonny WAC was on in New Zealand tonight. You were (and still are) AMAZING! ily  xx
joy	tweets	morning prayer meeting  how AMAZING is the gift of prayer!!!  i'm completely buzzing this morning! In christ alone my hope is found!
joy	tweets	@surfnmusicexpo Yup, but what they going do??? He's the Mother Effin Champion!!!! LOL
joy	tweets	@sabrinabryan hi my name is Chelsea and i respect your opinion when it comes to dwts. you were great on there too!
joy	tweets	me and my friends are just sitting here and searching for pictures on google   haha, my friend found pictures of her father! haha
joy	tweets	Up and washed  I'm clothing myself as I type xD WOOOO
joy	tweets	@XoGraceoX hahaha im listening to SHES A LADY! haha ily FTSK    xx
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day! May the 4th be with you  (via Nige the Goth)
joy	tweets	Morning all. First tea of the day, and just about to record the voiceover for a documentary about modern Druidry. Good times
joy	tweets	just made it home, time for a shower and some breakie, off out to Blackpool later for some lunch
joy	tweets	who has a day long text conversation? me.
joy	tweets	And the sun is back up again.  Could we have more of the kind of weather we had last January and February? I like jackets.
joy	tweets	hahaha @IkeBot is SUCH nonsense
joy	tweets	@foxmarta Look forward to seeing the resume!
joy	tweets	@InLuvwithJON Have you managed to breathe since getting the news?
joy	tweets	@khanserai I know how you feel!On the bright side, you're moving to a place where it would be appreciated!  Onwards and upwads!
joy	tweets	@KevinRButters i was in chiangmai for a month last year during loy krathong. best festival ever.
joy	tweets	@amysav83 yeah dropped the bike yesterday.Leg got caught below the engine.bikes not got a mark on it mind   I'm trying to avoid stairs lol
joy	tweets	http://tinyurl.com/d7tb38 Nice Photoshop Effects
joy	tweets	@rhettroberts haha best thing about office birthdays hey
joy	tweets	@irisush im glad  i dont have to go out...
joy	tweets	@zykloid Thanks!
joy	tweets	Haha! just overheard on the us. 3 yrold to mom &quot;mom, I think I should learn to read today&quot;
joy	tweets	@cheadlek Another one will be coming later in the week, i won a Westlife DVD on trademe, one that i have been after!
joy	tweets	@noangelvfc lol  well im gonna totter off. my sister trashed my room coz i wouldn' tlet her on.. i need to go cut her guitar strings
joy	tweets	Awaiting to watch lfctv @ 10am  liverpool vs newcastle game from yesterday!
joy	tweets	@aimzsta hehehehe oh i love the Purate ENglish sooo much
joy	tweets	likes cheerios and scones in the morning
joy	tweets	@allensjk Katie is my Malamute dog, as for my weight, well I'm about 6ft tall and 73kg, which is quite good
joy	tweets	@dduane have you read Angels &amp; Demons? What do you think of it if you have? oh and beautiful sunny weather here in Provence.
joy	tweets	man.....i'm at a loss for words.....looks like i'ma get an unexpected graduation gift.....in a good way
joy	tweets	@souravghosh Dreams give rise to reality. When they said I wouldn't   walk, my dream was to fly! Dream, Believe, Achieve!
joy	tweets	@QUEENKAK oh thank you thank you! Was hoping the video will be online
joy	tweets	my sister said yayyy its hannah HOEdown today  haaaa hannah is a hoe apparently hoe.
disgust	tweets	@aussiecynic Watching you work is exhausing. Just thinking about it is making  me sleepy
joy	tweets	Star wars day! May the 4th be with you.
joy	tweets	@thepioneerwoman - Bingley, just for that practise-the-proposal scene toward the end. So endearing
joy	tweets	uploading a lot of photos... priceless memories
joy	tweets	Chilling at home
joy	tweets	@honeytweets I also believe in some things are meant to happen.
joy	tweets	Chilling out listning to Seal!!
joy	tweets	@emjaystar haha thanks  yep definately a dream come true!  So excited the camera was shaking when i was taking a photo!
joy	tweets	after 9 weeks it has finally rained - not quite enough yet but more seems to be coming  the garden is very happy about it.
joy	tweets	@wolf_gregor Great avatar
joy	tweets	@lrkane LOL! No worries  You wanna take care of tickets? I can do a $$ EFT or whatever...
joy	tweets	ready to go to sleep... its too hot in my room, yey first time sleeping in that huge bed  excited!
joy	tweets	This may sound stupid... but i just bought a mask
joy	tweets	@ralfrottmann thank`s ... See? now I`m back on smiling
joy	tweets	@tfollowers thanks 4 the folow
joy	tweets	@jadeeisabel nah they were mine  @brydielonie had ones without fingers
joy	tweets	@Pon_and_Zi Thanks! I'm on my way now
joy	tweets	i woke him up in the end. Got bored.
joy	tweets	@petespencer Yeah,we say shite alot here. you say it as shiiite,rhyming with light
joy	tweets	chill`N witH tHE BABEz
joy	tweets	@CrystalJanee greaaat, do minee now pleaseeeeee
joy	tweets	@tynishakeli I like Light out, Walls up &amp; shatter'd the most! Great work, Germany must get to know you asap..
joy	tweets	@thunderror U can play as ur avatar (1st person) *or* as his team member (3rd person). Battles implement real-time strategy. AoE style.
joy	tweets	@qudsiya was jus so excited t c ur name
joy	tweets	@jakeashley cheer up
joy	tweets	Watching Bleach
joy	tweets	@sickophantikmnd now i'm done! good nite
joy	tweets	is having a cuppa and chilling... i lovebank holiday mondays
joy	tweets	@kyleandjackieo what about Your Body by Tom Novy or Voodoo Child by Rogue Traders. They are from 04/05. Good memories from these songs
joy	tweets	@misskittymarie Same here - events + writing songs. But I just finished my TMNT vs MMPR song, so I'm excited to record that on Wednesday
joy	tweets	@challiyan wait till england WC t20
joy	tweets	needs to stop taking photos with other people's cameras!  luckily, photos have been delivered
joy	tweets	@missamanda yeah, i'll take care of it tonight/tomorrow  just pay me on the night, easy
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday tooo meeee... Happy Birthday tooo meeee...
joy	tweets	im really really excited  try this out guys!
joy	tweets	Hope I'm not coming down with piggy flu, eyes red. Neck no longer holds up heavy head. Time for sleep.  Sogni D'oro all!
joy	tweets	@TangeloFlavored and no I didn't burn the eggs.  We had a blast and the food was great all weekend. We had an awesome carne asada too.
joy	tweets	At walmart playing hide and seek.
joy	tweets	just left work. inventory was way easy  and I got to put in my highschool musical 3 cd! it was amazing. goodnight goodnight everyone :]
joy	tweets	Oh yeaah.  we'll still be bffs  aha @Sadie_marie.
joy	tweets	@jdpeterson Absolutely
joy	tweets	@Renee0579 Hope you did great - you certainly spent enough time studying.
joy	tweets	is super happy at the new interest rate.  whoop whoop.
joy	tweets	Working on my resume while listening to the rain and enjoying a Circus Boy
joy	tweets	@Coybh yep! for a rock station in OKC  check my profile real quick
joy	tweets	@lopezwilfred Yeah. Me too. Will lookout on your tweets too. Happy Tweeting
joy	tweets	me 10 - 630, andrew 8 - 4. No idea about the rest, I think it was Ben and Princeton which could be fun  lol I'm going to be late
joy	tweets	is soooo over school...maybe sick..all week *evil laugh*
joy	tweets	pool party at sherraton n brodi had  a blast! the friends made the evening bbqd at home with great conversation  funky n lifted day!!
joy	tweets	@itshazel wow five years? Congrats
joy	tweets	@sheiel I really like pink after I saw her live while in the new T-MOBILE Advert
joy	tweets	@squeakmouse73 praying to be humble is always dangerous, He will answer you  (God gives grace ...)
joy	tweets	gahhhh homework. masterchef in half an hour! hahah and the recruits
joy	tweets	@AJinYourMouth taking out all my trash   http://twitpic.com/4ja8m
joy	tweets	@RopeMarksMuse _what_ did you do?  Let me guess... you skipped sports and bought a new pinkish outfit?
joy	tweets	Download movie  Dollhouse http://tinyurl.com/crbe6n cool #movie
joy	tweets	For all you Lord of the Rings fans. You MUST see this 40min fan film that just released. It's awesome!  http://is.gd/wvrx Watch in HD
joy	tweets	I'm going home now. Have you seen my new twitter design? Quite....heavenly isn't it?
joy	tweets	Updating my iPod and downloading new songs.
joy	tweets	@staceeeeee goodnight Cuppycake  hope you have a good day and don't feel so blah!  XxOo
joy	tweets	@AmyatQ13 Amy did u already check out the antics of Parella and Marcia? @ParellaLewis @madnewschick news... and entertainment on Twitter
joy	tweets	@Ciaee Yessir, yessir, three cheeks full.
joy	tweets	@samanthuh MISS YOU TOO! Yes, I will  I'm usually free pag after dinner. Rarely during the day. Basta text text
joy	tweets	thank god i havent quit my day job  ps. turning 27 tomorrow. i just round up to 30 now.
joy	tweets	Nothing like home-made paranthas for breakfast
joy	tweets	back from the city... breakfast time
joy	tweets	@vewe haha. Hope U have a Great Laugh as Laughter is the Best Medicine
joy	tweets	@HellenBach Sounds like the very best sort of work then! Jenni seems lovely,so nice to hear that she is when meeting 'in the flesh' too!
joy	tweets	should be coming out of hospital today
joy	tweets	I forgot I have lumpia and pancit in my fridge from last night! Yay
joy	tweets	Hah! I saw the Wolverine last night!!! Now I can die happy, well not yet though, got a few things to get done first, but was my MoY
joy	tweets	Just got home from my date omg so much fun im excited
joy	tweets	finished my capital transactions exam . . . as another monkey climbs down my back. looking forward to being in a glorious mood tomorrow.
joy	tweets	is having a well-deserved break today..NO PHONE CALLS, NO EMAILS..only plenty of catch up movies to doooooo
joy	tweets	@Hayday12 keith... im better now
joy	tweets	@DonniesCupcake i bet they will be great bags! Can't wait!
joy	tweets	@zef  the car illusin is Kool
joy	tweets	Monday morning  Lots to go out.. just waiting for a mate to add a style to my table and im set
joy	tweets	Getting my hair cut tomorrow or later today I should say...   excited. My swag is already on, jus turning it up!!
joy	tweets	is starting to get this whole Twitter thing!
joy	tweets	@giogadi Hey Luis, thanks!  I have Flash and my prof's code to thank for that.  *cough*
joy	tweets	@joyee0720 Thanks PP!
joy	tweets	@danijelabaron good morning from Lincolnshire. I could use some exercise also
joy	tweets	Sometimes after a long weekend, you just need good conversation. thanks bro
joy	tweets	Heading to bed. I think I'll read for a bit, propped up on fluffy pillows.
joy	tweets	Hey @deangeloredman yes! Praise Him! lol   (deangeloredman live &gt; http://ustre.am/2NlC)
joy	tweets	anyone drive a newish diesel car? any advice on pros cons? not interested in old diesel cars, need recent model experience, eg SUV
joy	tweets	lees net op Twitter dat het #Happy Star Wars day is... &quot;May the 4th be with you&quot;... Sjeez wat slecht
joy	tweets	Back in the office for a hectic week - but the weekend was awesome
joy	tweets	@angryfeet Ooh that is good... will wait a little bit to see how the money/job situation goes but thanks for that
joy	tweets	grubs up  so nice being cooked for, I feel like a princess every time
joy	tweets	@CheeseIsYellow That's alright, I forgive you. As long as you don't ship harry/ron or harry/snape then we're cool. Mu otp is Sirius/remus
joy	tweets	@myepeenisbigger hey jesse, here's your background  let me know what you think! http://tinyurl.com/cf2yuj
joy	tweets	@ralphp eagerly anticipating twitpics
joy	tweets	@donatoclassic me too
joy	tweets	Ok so this shower has been calling my name for about an hour I think I'll indulge &amp; respond now while I allow Robin Thicke to serenade me
joy	tweets	@timen Great idea
joy	tweets	- It's time for Kathleen to go to bed... waaaaay past time. Don't expect to hear from me before noon. lol  Have a BLESSED morning.
joy	tweets	@thatboyBryant dont cry for me! i will see u tomorrow.  muah.
joy	tweets	new supernatural tonight!
joy	tweets	downloading songs while trying to sneak a lil homework in too, which should be my main priority not songs lol
joy	tweets	It's fun
joy	tweets	@FaithfulChosen So-so, thanks  I've uploaded a new campaign vid, will post the link in a few mins. how are you doing, babe??
joy	tweets	@jimmymarsh617 I was there in spirit Jimmy. Glad it went well
joy	tweets	about to go to acting school  yayay
joy	tweets	@peterjrday Thanks. Feel so happy 2 Make Ur Day a Great one. Enjoy it 2 the fullest N Have Fun Always
joy	tweets	If anyone needs help with images, let me know and i will convo you the forum's link
joy	tweets	SBS 2003 or SBS 2008! Damned if you do and damned if you don't!  Fun times at GCH!
joy	tweets	@kevinriley Heh, thanks for that adorable plug  *cough* more info at: www.samstephens.com *cough* *cough*
joy	tweets	@MarieLuv ahh that would rock
joy	tweets	Rachmaninoff makes me a happy panda.
joy	tweets	Its relaxing time..a movie and some treats
joy	tweets	@Mintyboi i can smack your head for you
joy	tweets	watching Please Twins.  gonna make some Iced Tea :-bd
joy	tweets	@Moanikeala you outta follow zipz for discounts and updates
joy	tweets	@mswilliamsmusic awww shooks  now im gon be all overprotective just incase you start cybercheatin on me lol
joy	tweets	@LucyKD DSi is the latest Nintendo DS with 2 cameras + stuff built in. We are a Gadget house. Luckily I get my blackberrys free from work
joy	tweets	@mileycyrus http://twitpic.com/4fzo7 - When you'll come in Bulgaria??? You have a great fans here!
joy	tweets	http://tinyurl.com/c4z6gn Wow.. Wow.. hope, i too get that sort of Guts in near future
joy	tweets	@AnGee10 @malennaa yess... it's awesomee.. and u can follow ur love molly hahah....  now u can chat with us here!
joy	tweets	@wortje The bag looks stylish. Congrats!
joy	tweets	@ksidney wolverine was GREAT!!!  a must see
joy	tweets	@billingtonart Gone have my ears on it when I am at home ..plenty of painting for you as well
joy	tweets	@tove_liden Thanks for the follow Tove!
joy	tweets	@kiki_miacherry morning kik enjoy your breakfast
joy	tweets	@Steph_Atticus Thank you
joy	tweets	on my way home from school  lol in my car and so tired!
joy	tweets	@lewisking awww well iff uu are il see uu in townn  xx
joy	tweets	done with the exams. oh my. such a nerve-wracking experience! passed it, though.
joy	tweets	@petabridges I do my humble best  Going on a works paintball day soon so that should fuel a few strips, no doubt
joy	tweets	@fairuzrani hehehe hello!!! how are you? good to see you on twitter!!
joy	tweets	*yaaaawwwwnnnn* thx to bank holiday... let's see what today has prepared for us...
joy	tweets	THE best job in the world &amp; yes its in Australia  http://tinyurl.com/clxl4l
joy	tweets	Shopping, grandparents, dinner with the bf  woop
joy	tweets	New Project is going incredibly well! and I'm not tired today  I think we should get all Monday's off. Permanently.
joy	tweets	big shout out to all my home girls you know who you are
joy	tweets	@lexikitty hahaha yes yes, of course  i look after them when you and jack need alone time ;D
joy	tweets	@markyboosh had to many weirdos on the other one
joy	tweets	11 days till county raly  i had 2 tak 3 from 14 it took me a while
joy	tweets	@tommcfly haha that was good, slightly geeky but funny  x
joy	tweets	Yogurting. Home from lady Mona's, on the fone w no song from Yoplait. Lookin forward to hrs w @QisWalker tmorrow &amp; rehearsals  Gnight all!
joy	tweets	is so excited for this summer... Steve Winwood and Eric Clapton, Eagles of Death Metal, and ahhh the Dead Weather
joy	tweets	has just finished recording the improvisation for the second instrument in the latest podcast and is happy. nearly mixing time.
joy	tweets	@_josh_thomas are you coming to sydney?! cool, where can i meet you? id love to meet you, you're my favourite comedian
joy	tweets	@marcoflores You're welcome!  How much longer until it's colored in?
joy	tweets	is back at working auditing away, time to make the hard decisions and be happy
joy	tweets	houstatlantavegas, sooner than later, nov. 18th, a night off, successful . over and over for the last 2837 hours - heavennn
joy	tweets	Watched Coraline last night. It was really good. The animation was excellent and the creativity was inspirational.
joy	tweets	Didn't get bitten by a rabies infested person last night  yay for me! Gonna scare Rachel with Quarantine tonight, this shall be fun
joy	tweets	@jackoolz anywhere!!! i don't mind...as long as i'm superman and there's good music...all is sweet
joy	tweets	Now i've got 3 new frens-frm Germany,Mexico n France  havin dinner 2gather 2nite.
joy	tweets	will deplurk too. buhbyeee  http://plurk.com/p/rp3ir
joy	tweets	Home from Disney...best time in a long time...howl at the moon tonight for GBA and then BHB Tuesday  oh drummer boy  niiight
joy	tweets	// happy Star Wars Day everyone, May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	is trying to help save the earth. Let's plant more trees.
joy	tweets	http://slingalink.com/eVicE1 my daughters kindergarden  !
joy	tweets	@floyduk just relax like it is or translated to swedish too? Just got to take a look at my next comment
joy	tweets	@aussiemcflyfan i hope so  I KNOW WOO! haha 2 times  it was exciting lol
joy	tweets	@AmyatQ13 @borborigma I agree about the redesigned Q13 site! Looks great on computer &amp; phone.
joy	tweets	@Ah_Lex_Ah hey alexa, you heard right  looking forward to causing some mischief on friday!!
joy	tweets	@LeesaLily oh ok thanks
joy	tweets	@DeepaPrabhu Thanks and thanks
joy	tweets	my brain is gonna explode, a minute from now ) it is full of numbers @-) this should be the cliiimb. :-j i'm climbing the: mt. numbers.
joy	tweets	new golf VI TSi 160HP is fast!
joy	tweets	@tommcfly You're getting new fans all the time. I wasn't one until November
joy	tweets	@savii313 I am twittering, LIKE A BOSS. Thanks Savvv
joy	tweets	&quot;leave the pieces&quot; - the wreckers... hmm
joy	tweets	@littletiara aha i bet they are cute,should we wear our nu **at  the same time so  i cn show you mine,u cn show me yours
joy	tweets	@BenFordham Thats Not a Golf Buggy LOL it's a Australia Zoo Buggy The staff use it to get around and give certain patrons a life
joy	tweets	oh, it's @andremichelle 's birthday! happy birthday andre michelle
joy	tweets	@sunrisesister yeah, so quick! And I'm using the 5mm addi's I bought on Sat and it makes it even smoother
joy	tweets	@cherrylipstain hello nikki! i just ended my exams 2 hours ago!  how abt u?
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day  May the fourth be with you!
joy	tweets	@dangriffey In France it was last Friday and also the coming one, we are working
joy	tweets	Bank Holiday Bliss - Jeremy Kyle, without even bothering the Sky+
joy	tweets	@imeldalaura it's a woodchipper &amp; it's gonna top off the weekend just nicely
joy	tweets	@bellothika  The flowers grow!!
joy	tweets	Actually a great start to the day, hope it continues  getting my new american oversized bed in the evening!
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day! .... May the 4th Be with You!
joy	tweets	@nnaa the rain was pretty nice. I only have 150 meters of cobbles on my way here
joy	tweets	Going to have dinner. bbs
joy	tweets	@tommcfly i am glad cos u wouldnt lose me as a fan anyway  i get to see you guys on saturday evening at leicester  it better be good!
joy	tweets	@Wildchickendew muhahaha you've joined the tweet cult... lol heya  btw twitterific is a good iphone app i use
joy	tweets	is eating chocolate ready break
joy	tweets	@mkasper22 Thank you
joy	tweets	@PhilLHerold Thank you
joy	tweets	YAHOO! volleyball, hiking, eating a fish eye, witnessing, sleeping on the beach, jumping rocks, &amp; hanging where Jurassic Park was filmed!
joy	tweets	@neilhimself Look at all this feedback!  You should do it more often, seriously  The crazier the topic, the better.
joy	tweets	Going to sleep with Horton.  Goodnight, Twitterverse &lt;3
joy	tweets	@ElvisHsiao  The website I'm developing - http://woo.sh lets you also share Videos, documents, maps and events - Later music too
joy	tweets	@RobKardashian Hey fellow Trojan..congrats on graduation.
joy	tweets	@simonrim off to the cheese counter I go! Thanks
joy	tweets	@coconutfriend i should have shouldnt i, im happy you enjoyed it cos im thoughtful like that you see, and YAYA i hav 20 followers  woop
joy	tweets	wheelchair fitting today for mall buzzing &amp; Home Depot. &quot;Homebound&quot; just got REAL old  Goal: taxi yellow or electric RED!
joy	tweets	Java Concurrency in Practice is probably the best Java book I've ever bought. There's a recipe in there for interrupting blocking IO ops
joy	tweets	@uyaerdna thanks
joy	tweets	study all day.  just finished my care plan.  hungry as hell!  ima go treat myself with a burrito, for a good days work
joy	tweets	@LineHara Youuuu're an aaass  my aaass loooool
joy	tweets	@chocolatesuze yes yes you should! Especially with wine and mushrooms!! Ummm I love mushies
joy	tweets	@mariaandros guns and roses baby! yay!  was hopin you would blip.fm it
joy	tweets	bali!! can wait for it
joy	tweets	eating my tito's home made ice cream  yum!
joy	tweets	@RobTSmith Good morning to you as well Rob, have a great day
joy	tweets	humm.... I adore Mark #hoppusday ,so I'm just going to throw it out there #hoppusday....... have a nice #hoppusday people!!
joy	tweets	@MXYZ_ I don't see how there could possibly be another choice.
joy	tweets	@BreakfastNews ETS (Endoscopic thoracic sympathectomy) is an invaluable surgical procedure
joy	tweets	@HandymanTrainer Actually because of the several updates you have daily, I find them all interesting and informative. Keep posting.
joy	tweets	@runsenorun that frenchfry-corndog looks so delish! I WANT!!  Welcome back to Seattle!
joy	tweets	wants to welcome @melizadeleon: back to Plurk again!  http://plurk.com/p/rp5po
joy	tweets	Great weekend, even though my site is not moved. Plenty other things to do and learn. Keeping the faith and looking to the future
joy	tweets	Packing gym bag. Off to the gym in a bit. Squee! I'm my happiest whem I'm on the go.
joy	tweets	@JONGIRL79 that would be awesome  lol
joy	tweets	@Rove1974 If you mention this twitter group to your followers I would be very grateful
joy	tweets	@charley_bum lol *30 minutes slow* in a sec  i was just having fun tearing down old posters and putting up new ones
joy	tweets	@rowsell will be following you tomorrow!!  sleep well
joy	tweets	awesome lucky you
joy	tweets	Welcome to everyone  Playerstation.it is now live on Twitter. www.playerstation.it
joy	tweets	@pureelite Thankss  Someone sent me another text this morning saying happy birthday, was from that number I told you about last night LOL
joy	tweets	@cheergod2002 yeah I can tell ha ha.
joy	tweets	Home Sweet home &lt;3  Going to see Hannah Montana The Movie AGAIN today &lt;3 DDD
joy	tweets	Nope, thank God, not on Air...  It's a REAL application, compiled code...
joy	tweets	@Appledoe Mmmm, I had honey mustard chicken w/ rice &amp; veges
joy	tweets	Rachel Allens date bars, so easy to make   http://twitpic.com/4jas7
joy	tweets	@Jasonalbi Oh yea, my pain went down a little bit from laughing so hard which was good and nice for once.
joy	tweets	Do me a favour, tell me what you think about me
joy	tweets	Monday blues? Not today, not for me.
joy	tweets	@texasjackflash thnx 4 the follow
joy	tweets	@4_idiots hahaha! I don't work in a strip club you know  alrighty mister, have YOU done any public may dancing today?
joy	tweets	Great long-weekend so far   Going for a run now - no Judo tonight  Then off to Blue Water for some &quot;Retail Therapy&quot;
joy	tweets	@RealLadyGaga hey.just putting it out there.. you should come to townsville next year..elton john came in '06 n loved it. it was great!!!
joy	tweets	learning to play sweet child of mine on guitar.  yays.
joy	tweets	@WKJThD You are very much welcome
joy	tweets	@tracey1972 Morning babe!  I plan on overdoing it today! lol Hope you do rest &amp; put your feet up! xxxx
joy	tweets	I've listed lots of new beads on eBay!
joy	tweets	lol simpsons S20E19: &quot;first day at your new school, so lisa: have fun!   and bart:  DON'T!&quot;
joy	tweets	going to look in the refrigerator for a taste snack to eat
joy	tweets	bought beer today
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jaw9 it's the frog who's been attacking Chelsey..LOL! Funny
joy	tweets	Streamyx is pretty fine here, downloading Heroes and Smallville and also a movie. I'll still call it screwmyx though   // cool http:/ ...
joy	tweets	@khriskhaos aww preciate the loves hunnie
joy	tweets	Bom dia! Good Morning! Guten Morgen! I am returning to Twitter!
joy	tweets	Back from x-men origins . Was surprisingly good
joy	tweets	In a Drill Sergeant's voice: everybody wake the fuck UP!!! *flicks on everyone's lights* it's 500 est rise and shine beetches!! Lol JK
joy	tweets	now we are also on twitter  follow us to know the latest!
joy	tweets	@tom_howarth hehehehe I will keep silent now
joy	tweets	Dump your worries in the Stress Fire. Fun and profoundly freeing  http://budurl.com/c765
joy	tweets	re-reading 6th Harry Potter, did dishes, mended a cushion on the patio sofa, &amp; fixed one of the outdoor barstools. An accomplished Sunday
joy	tweets	Morning world! back to the office after longgggggggg weekend
joy	tweets	@onlyhis2109 i can't wait to see!
joy	tweets	@kameliamohamad LoL. I don't even know what intezone-football-competition means... Good luck
joy	tweets	@FiiFiiii ahahahaha you love Twilight don't liee!!!  and we all know I love Robert Pattinson!!
joy	tweets	Talking to my best mate and my boyfriend on msn
joy	tweets	just cos i dont have an ipod touch yet - doesn't mean i can't look at some apps! they're sooo cool.  twittering in school? awesome!
joy	tweets	@xranarawr haha i told you, it's not important
joy	tweets	@BrisvegasLukass yes I do! I'll try posting some pics when I can
joy	tweets	@dduane *waves back* Have a good day
joy	tweets	i finally found the perfect matte lcd cleaner!! i-nix screen cleaner ftw!
joy	tweets	Yay! I finally made sales at the gallery; Really helps when the artists are there
joy	tweets	@cottonandcloud Moooorning! Fancy a coffee?
joy	tweets	I beat 3 bosses in Castelvania
joy	tweets	i guess i'll do both since i cant really decide which one to choose
joy	tweets	@jamiewhincup Awesome effort this w/e,even if u didnt win.Good luck at Tassie
joy	tweets	@rosehwang Good Evening Rose ....
joy	tweets	it's @andreamichellef's birthday today, wish her a good one assholes! Sleepytime
joy	tweets	@MrFloydNL  thankyou very much, you rock!
joy	tweets	@DustBuny: being today and all, WE'RE GONNA USE THE FORCE to make it happen!
joy	tweets	@threalmiarose hey mia!  totally adore your music.  when will your cd be out?
joy	tweets	@bratinella, @carambs - muji  yipee. is anybody coming here? i can send them over hahaha. but can somebody bring JT's BSG disks? haha
joy	tweets	Down in Wellington for the Monet Exhibition. Casually just bumped into Wayne Brady in our hotel lobby!!  Mega exciting!!!
joy	tweets	@NikkiPilkington You seem nice, you're generous and you know your stuff
joy	tweets	@statkallday yessssssir!!
joy	tweets	@besz Well, good luck then.
joy	tweets	@shawnieora I googled him &amp; looked @ a lot of sites... I should have checked here first.  How Exciting, for you both
joy	tweets	@fanboy_uk Yeah, but it's Myst!
joy	tweets	@Cadistra Ah brilliant! Thanks a bunch
joy	tweets	@MicaR yup it gets better again after S4
joy	tweets	to @WebAnime and @tbaggins1, thanks for following me.
joy	tweets	@peternomad Thanks! I know.
joy	tweets	@LEGmin http://twitpic.com/4jaz5 - Cool... luv it
joy	tweets	@shintabubu hey shinta!  i'm headed to bed now, but perhaps tomorrow night - when our hours overlap...
joy	tweets	cooked chicken soup for the rainy weather
joy	tweets	@audreythebaby gandang mac un ah! for sure, if its out in the market mas mahal pa sya sa macbook pro. ang cool ng concept!
joy	tweets	@rosehwang U R &quot;happiness pollinator&quot; 4 shizzle.   Good friend you are.. I am smiling!
joy	tweets	I am now eating one of those big subway cookies with a glass of warm milk. YUM
joy	tweets	has a face mask on. hehe
joy	tweets	Has had a really good bank hoilday
joy	tweets	@TaraAlberto i'll be there tom promise! After our volley  when did they start? Wholeday? Or half?
joy	tweets	@Broooooke_ kk's  have fun eating lol, remember shaun loves you haha
joy	tweets	watching JONAS for nick's beautiful voice to put me to sleep
joy	tweets	@Brokenromantic haha malamang as one of my chef.
joy	tweets	I'm entering a two month study/exam period.  Which is awesome. - See you on the flip side
joy	tweets	yep... i think i might have just made the decision to go head first...  we may be witnessing a historical moment... real talk
joy	tweets	@TferThomas Thank you!
joy	tweets	@clumsy_steph yeah school sucks totally. yea you can be so grateful that you got a better place  man i cant tell you how excited i am hul
joy	tweets	just got Home from school!  it was fun ) oh btw its a music school.
joy	tweets	@heykt haha who thought that?
joy	tweets	@kayles yessss it does! YAY! told you it was awesome
joy	tweets	@margotrobbie oh that makes sense! Well you are officially my first @reply from a celebrity!!
joy	tweets	@OfficalJonasBro just watched it on youtube and its hilarious. i laughed trough it.. seriously guys so funny.. greetings from Germany...
joy	tweets	@LiesX xD send it!
joy	tweets	@juicebox07 i know how annoying that can be!  but theres a german saying'pleasant anticipation is the greatest pleasure'(own translation)
joy	tweets	1/2 day tomorrow  carla coming over after school.
joy	tweets	@nichelady I am with you. -#FollowFriday is easy enough for those who are annoyed by it.  I recommend relatively few people anyway.
joy	tweets	@ChrisKalydo Happy STAR WARS Day
joy	tweets	relaxing fragrances are SOO IN! my latest loves are still lavender &amp; chamomile--the basic ones  trying to find more flower scents..
joy	tweets	all time low mean so fucking much to me. i hope i get to see them in june. it would be so awesome. gaskarth is amazing
joy	tweets	April showers bring May flowers, yea
joy	tweets	Weather is lovely, I'm headed home via supermarket. Planning to spend some quality time knitting tonight.
joy	tweets	@Edna92 you did just add me haha  xo
joy	tweets	Good morning friends. Happy May Bank Holiday.
joy	tweets	I should have posted this for the world Pinhole day   I Love this picture. http://twitpic.com/4jb4d
joy	tweets	Happy #juddday everyone!
joy	tweets	I've got great expectations of tomorrow  It's gonna be awesome!! ? http://blip.fm/~5jf53
joy	tweets	playing with @elgg on a cool new website... hopefully ready very soon
joy	tweets	@piginthepoke  Lol  grey skies as far as the eye can see, which is about 20 yards
joy	tweets	@susieblackmon I know what appeals to you with knitting! Believe me I KNOW!
joy	tweets	@cindeelean I wake up at 4:30 during the week - and funny, Deathcab makes me think of you!  (&amp; I use your calendar to track work hours)
joy	tweets	@kenlee86 nice recolouring of your page  nobody is buying your anti-twittering words!! YOU LOVE IT!!!!
joy	tweets	@nienerenee hahaha niene ur soo smart.! lmao i think that is who its by..  good lookin.. whts up gurlie?? i come home this weekend.!
joy	tweets	@textualoffender Good Luck.. mine 3rd day today !
joy	tweets	@joolzgirl oh no! u must get 1!!!lol mum still isnt convinced, and we have 3
joy	tweets	@leeprovoost Thanks for the tip! It's our Company laptops so was aiming for another solution actually....
joy	tweets	is feeling waaay too cruisey and relaxed for a Monday evening...  oh wait..  that's just wine before dinner...
joy	tweets	Ha ha 1 point for the men
joy	tweets	i just woke up and remembered theres no school!!! life is good  xxxxxx
joy	tweets	@keza34 sounds like my kinda day
joy	tweets	@rafikakikukeko of couuuurse fika  i'll pray thes best for you then.
joy	tweets	@wiseleo  i got named - and since you recco so few peeps I felt pretty honored... I gotta talk to you about blowin' up my ego like that
joy	tweets	@Mennard Its because I put radio 4 on by mistake..I'll have a cup of tea and a shower, then I'm sure all will fine and dandy, thanks
joy	tweets	updating my resume
joy	tweets	@journo_at_work agree totally, think though if we can take a point off Everton and Liverpool beat Man City we are happy days
joy	tweets	@hannibals Great news! we got it by the balls
joy	tweets	everybody is awake (well not everybody, u know what i mean. ma friends) haha, and I'm having fun AIMing them
joy	tweets	Half Marathon Training Day # 1 .........
joy	tweets	I've just about made it all the way round the park jogging. Quite pleased for my 6th outing
joy	tweets	@torilovesbradie no probs(: and yeah im still sick. no school today  lol. feel really crap but thats because im dancing lol . thanks
joy	tweets	Insomnia at its finest. Go to bed at 11:30, fully awake at 2. Grrr. Anyone want to call mee?
joy	tweets	@rosehwang Very early and I am actually just going back for a little more rest ..... talk  with you a little later ....
joy	tweets	@uhandbag I will  I enjoyed doing the peg bags, I've adapted the design for a tote bag  Bit cuter than I normally do
joy	tweets	Omg! Star Wars Day!  May the fourth be with you everyone  This calls for me to watch at least 1 film tonight.
joy	tweets	@introversimonDu sounds good.  and yeah, I turn 21 tomorrow so I'll definitely be partying.
joy	tweets	@annalisaceccato hey thanks mate your cool coz you watched it...
joy	tweets	woke up, now having breakfast and online, as every morning (except holidays and weekends), haha. then bath and school!
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 heLLo tayLor.. just wanna say i've aLready voted 4 u i think 5 times..haha
joy	tweets	@pjaficionado Ahhh!  OK, remember the film now.  Never saw it though, will have to check it out. Thanks
joy	tweets	@Punisher5463 You Got Twitter! Yayy  xxx
joy	tweets	@Samiyusuf : Sir ! Everything Will Be Great InShaa'Allah
joy	tweets	@davorkapozgan CongratulationS. Great funky site! U did it waaw
joy	tweets	I'm eating egg-whites right out of the pan
joy	tweets	@HulantheHoly morning
joy	tweets	@keza34 yummy curry  save me some please lol
joy	tweets	@b_luca LOL!  I'm glad to see I'm not the only one out there!!!
joy	tweets	new phones just arrived in the office. not much else is gona get done today
joy	tweets	had a great shot yesterday, editing pics now
joy	tweets	@JennaMadison hehehehehe.....it play time now cutie!  lol lol
joy	tweets	@Crimsonmuse i just saw this! im freakin' starving right now! i'm thinking peanut butter fudge ice cream...&amp; now steak, of course!
joy	tweets	well that rowing machine has paid off this week as i've lost 3lbs this week
joy	tweets	@RubixSquare Think of getting a job this way - only another 50 years now until you can retire  or the otherway (my way) 50 years of fun!!!
joy	tweets	@betscrr finally a pic! cya in like 16 hrs haha
joy	tweets	@butterflykate Oh ok..we're supposed to be going to see Star Trek on Sun for Daves b/day...at least it's not Shatner
joy	tweets	@nannynick Ok then have a good day
joy	tweets	@TessMorris i'm not worried -it's a great job!! Quite a nice way to spend the day
joy	tweets	@rainstopper have a lok at EF too! they are jummy
joy	tweets	hold on to what you've got
joy	tweets	I think today I shall listen to some Gary Numan before starting some remixes
joy	tweets	We just hit 10000 views on myspace! Thanks everyone!
joy	tweets	@khanserai Thank you  and hope you are having a great day
joy	tweets	thanks to @ranukka and i'm now on twitter!
joy	tweets	@helenotway yes, it will finish at 7:30 tonight. Still the food has been great as has been the discussion
joy	tweets	@Punisher5643 You Got Twitter Yayy  xxx
joy	tweets	@FabMissK we need to be quicker if we're to keep our nerd streetcred! haha
joy	tweets	@sammythewizzy Oki! Great. All the best!
joy	tweets	is happy that tiff can't drop BIO so she can suffer with me  nyayhahahah!
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 oh great!  hope you'll have a blast there! ;)
joy	tweets	@amandapalmer He loved it, so Happy Birthday!!!   He said you sounded like a mixture of John Lennon, Chrissie Hynde, and Janis Joplin.
joy	tweets	end of work... Thank God! I accomplished a number of things...  http://plurk.com/p/rpaag
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 Hey Tay!! Plz can u write hey elin to me? Im sick and if u do it I feel better!
joy	tweets	@sajal I meant you are not lazy, your work proves it
joy	tweets	@Sazchik I'm in Devon this weekend! Cloudy, but dry.
joy	tweets	@septemberblues Thanks hun, it was great
joy	tweets	@sparklingshoes yeah it's my friends 18th today as well ^^ it's always like a running joke we have
joy	tweets	@Sadie_marie better than Hudgens.  OMG our song came on on shuffle. What Would You Do - City High.
joy	tweets	Official whine-tweet for today. Nothing specified
joy	tweets	Hey, Good Morning guys!!
joy	tweets	@Emmmaa___ haha im gonna follow my dreams now  well...ur dream haha im still reading over it for the 90th time  :p
joy	tweets	enjoying my new car
joy	tweets	@Galiiit lol thanx, me too!
joy	tweets	@lopezwilfred Yeah, of course!
joy	tweets	On way back home after a crazy night on the coast
joy	tweets	@stayingyoung I usually do if there is choice, but I am lucky in that most foods I love are generally very healthy (except ice cream!!).
joy	tweets	@jakeashley cant wait till ur may 22 show!!  u better stop by and hang out in newcastle  xx
joy	tweets	can't wait to be at home again.. let the sun shine and warm my frozen bones, please!
joy	tweets	@work again thanks to my dear neighboor who also gave me coffee when I needed it. She is the best
joy	tweets	@henrys_creek No worries - thank google! There's nothing you can't find on there!
joy	tweets	@nickchien @chaubella_ i am glad to break my twitter virginity with you two.
joy	tweets	@beijingboyce  I am seriously contemplating timing my next trip home to catch his next fight. They show it in cinemas. Live! With beer!
joy	tweets	i reckon i could live of yogurt for a week if i had a good selection of flavors
joy	tweets	im home!  videoke at Funtime.. yey! got loads of tickets! nyahahaha!
joy	tweets	@itamarw #momoTLV is always good  IVA will have a special price for  #momoTLV guests..
joy	tweets	@ItsKanye tnx following, looking forward to tweet with you..
joy	tweets	@CardineB teehee. it was a good show anyway
joy	tweets	I'm still up! Thank you all for praying (: AHAHAHA! I'm watching Britney: For the Record until school. Today should be a good day
joy	tweets	@danslevin You're welcome and thanks for inviting us to talk. #48hoursnz is like becoming a parent. No one can really prepare you for it
joy	tweets	@tomfelton http://twitpic.com/4jam0 - Oh it's so beautiful! I'm happy you had a great time! Heartz
joy	tweets	listening to faith spirituality and the internet
joy	tweets	Ha! Just noticed it's Star Wars day! May the 4th be with you, always
joy	tweets	@ChloeCazRhi  glad your feeling abit better!  I think mine might be nearly gone now xD
joy	tweets	Doing some test shooting later this afternoon.  Did I mention being in Holland for an indie wine festival this week? My tongue is red.
joy	tweets	@RubyRose1 you must love sydney more  dont leave us sydney kids  xx
joy	tweets	@Midad This weekend? Haha yeah I'm free  Oh is Satish sharing with us too? Oh and which day? Friday or sat?
joy	tweets	Hope you all have a great Bank Holiday Monday!
joy	tweets	http://dayna.dreamwidth.org for the daily random-ness
joy	tweets	@lifeincyan Aren't randoms what it's about?!!!  I LOVE that it's Star Wars day - I didn't realise and I can't believe it's almost over!
joy	tweets	Sitting outside with my laptop  Its kinda nice
joy	tweets	@framianne and aww and HEEE. nicely done, your weekend guest! *approves a lot*
joy	tweets	@Irish1974 Its Bank Holiday here so day off
joy	tweets	I'm back online!
joy	tweets	@MistressB Am happy to provide backup support for all murderous rampages
joy	tweets	Aww. I'm glad that I'm up at this obscenely late/early hour. Because I just found out that Forest Kline is engaged.
joy	tweets	done with facebook. off to jamlegend
joy	tweets	@jords_ good morning - you're up early! Feeling enthused to design your life?  thanks to manics for that phrase
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 OMG! Taylors in London! Your near Scotland, please come visit Glasgow
joy	tweets	@vickytcobra wooo what a fight !!! goooo Vicky , i am with you
joy	tweets	attics to eden out today !
joy	tweets	good day
joy	tweets	i'm awake while others sleep
joy	tweets	@purrsikat yeah thought it was awesome - glad to see some characters like Gambit brought back into the fold
joy	tweets	hey thanks for the follow @freakgoddess ..
joy	tweets	@ghostallday lol I like raawrrrr. Cuz I'm a vicious tiger. Rawwwwrrrr, grrrrr.  lol
joy	tweets	should have started working on this lecture MUCH earlier  using tag clouds from google news to explain basics of content analysis...
joy	tweets	@LeelooDogBlog it means that you are now FAMOUS. Congrats!
joy	tweets	@louis_educator Thanks. Photos look great - I'll comment them asap
joy	tweets	Waking Up In Vegas is goooooooooooooooooooooooood
joy	tweets	Thank God @aravindkumar is a sport and doesnt take offence in my jokes  Unlike the three good friends who have stopped talking to me!
joy	tweets	@zsafwan You are very much welcome
joy	tweets	I'm going to open up PROVERBS and get as much wisdom as possible-I'm hungry!
joy	tweets	checking iDestroy sales.... sales are good
joy	tweets	cooking with my dad  having lots of fun in the kitchen together
joy	tweets	Download movie  &quot;Jackass 3&quot; http://tinyurl.com/caotku cool #movie
joy	tweets	just finished the exam. I did ok, I guess.
joy	tweets	@Buchautor Hi Michael!  Wow, thanks for the kind words! Now I must find love connections for you just for your bg alone!
joy	tweets	haha wow there's a song called 'hit me on twitter' lmao. okay g'night
joy	tweets	When will you be saying &quot; hello there NEW ZEALAND &quot;  haha @taylorswift13
joy	tweets	@drchino Yay! I too had some joy in that department
joy	tweets	I be having a drink with Marc while Izzy is sleepin  woot woot!
joy	tweets	Rockstar photographer shoot went great tonight. A little different than the usual stuff - very nice.
joy	tweets	@kusuma06 aaa new follower! hiii
joy	tweets	@ejoleski but i do emily ahahha you scare me, so it would work
joy	tweets	@jaezors my b day is on may 13 but my party is on this sat  come you gays
joy	tweets	ready to go to Milan  see ya'll this evening..
joy	tweets	Slept like a log last night, now I'm full of energy
joy	tweets	done watching Slumdog Millionaire.  Great Movie!
joy	tweets	@keza34 lol fine by me  long as its not the scary dude its all good
joy	tweets	Oooh! Apple are in the trending topics again! xD Yay apple!
joy	tweets	@datadirt hahah  okay then thanks for this short explanation ;)
joy	tweets	@DavidGuetta_EN  we're waiting you here in Belgrade!! Can't wait!!
joy	tweets	A very exciting week
joy	tweets	@LittleFletcher happy #juddday, carrie
joy	tweets	@Karen230683 good good!!
joy	tweets	@baldy_za thanks man. I can't wait
joy	tweets	@HellenBach good stuff, cant wait for the results
joy	tweets	@jocalling hope our wishes come true someday.
joy	tweets	@woodsciman ahh but sometimes that's the best kind of day, lazing around doing very little with a cuppa
joy	tweets	regarde les tant attendues photographies
joy	tweets	@sexy_pickle lol, thank you very much Hope you're having a great day!
joy	tweets	yay, just got my stuff from rygegrej.dk  Perfect tastes like banana and apple
joy	tweets	@Princess_DJ Xmas a week early? Hehe, at least you didn't have to do any last min shopping
joy	tweets	Afternoon from office  My cubicle has been moved but not the system yippie! Mine is one of te few surviving &quot;good&quot; system..
joy	tweets	@tommcfly happy #juddday, tom
joy	tweets	@andyclemmensen Heyy my teddy bear says i look very pretty and that Blake is to
joy	tweets	@LeaLunacy Make a videoblog!
joy	tweets	@TheCharmQuark Hello! Happy bank holiday
joy	tweets	@utterhip Well, just catching my little piece of it - but I'm all for sharing
joy	tweets	Happy National Star Wars day everyone!!
joy	tweets	shout outs to @SPAC3MAN!!!! good seein you tnite. WE takin over like DJ Khaled!
joy	tweets	seriously. increasingly good nights. stoked on life! couldn't be happier  #goodnight
joy	tweets	Oh before I forgot, Happy Star Wars Day! May the Fourth be with you!
joy	tweets	Is looking forward to a yummy dinner with mizz Kate jones this evening!
joy	tweets	140 pages and i'm done with eclipse!
joy	tweets	Is at coffee bean, met Dean
joy	tweets	Going into town later to get myself a birthday present.  An iPod Touch will do nicely I think
joy	tweets	@djcamilo classics are timeless...dont believe me, check youtube, google, etc. Numbers dont lie &amp; i actually performed it last night,
joy	tweets	@sarahconquilla Many many thanks!!!  (it's about school!) Weeeee!!!
joy	tweets	Still wide awake... fortunately I don't have to be up early.
joy	tweets	Morning y'all. Looking forward to a nice BBQ today. Can everyone follow @RebeccaMasters please?
joy	tweets	Chilling out....now the boys have gone  Time To Relax
joy	tweets	It's teddy chucking time
joy	tweets	@wulffboy I'll give u an icecream ?
joy	tweets	MORNING!!! Hope you all have a lovely holiday Monday whatever you are goin to be up to!
joy	tweets	Guys, follow @ginoboi for the RX Twitterwar!!!! DD GO GINOOOO!!!
joy	tweets	Having a cup of tea
joy	tweets	~ Happy Star Wars Day.every one ~  ...may the fourth be with you!
joy	tweets	@DannyjClayton star wars ............ is gay BOO??? i wanna do your job HAND IT OVER  u can act as me at my high school   LOL
joy	tweets	@TrudyMagnifique haha check out our site its got some good ones too
joy	tweets	@JonoH Geez... it's like I bribed you for a follow back
joy	tweets	Britt - had to do it she came all the way down to say 'May the fourth be with you' - our work is done
joy	tweets	giving myself a manicure + pedicure  ahhh how i've missed you nice pretty nails...
disgust	tweets	doing my folio work but keep on getting distracted by deb pics
joy	tweets	national starwars day today- may the fourth be with you
joy	tweets	@hayfa You are welcome
joy	tweets	back at Wingman after a great weekend
joy	tweets	finished watching the movie 'mirrors'. I liked it but it really didnt do anything for me  5 out of ten i give it   // cool http://g ...
joy	tweets	@MrsSprousex mee too it's looks amazeeeeeee
joy	tweets	listening to those litle hyperbirdies terrorizing the world since 4.30! lets cook em
joy	tweets	@igzzie Easy, I'm trying to learn   Serious and normal....two new words for me ;)
joy	tweets	@snw well then you can do what you want and not what visitors want you to find out : can be a +
joy	tweets	@MissxMarisa we had scones this afternoon!! they were great  we're gonna make cupcakes this week, on Wednesday!
joy	tweets	@Zobi09 The cast of True Blood was there
joy	tweets	@missjerilee welcome to twitter my friend
joy	tweets	@botse that's a very cute picture ... but you don't get fat from licking BBQs ... he must have found some chops on someone else's ...
joy	tweets	@DHughesy Congrats Hughesy to you and Holly on the safe arrival of Rafferty David Hughes! Hope all is well  xoxo
joy	tweets	@hailoluna well, SNL is an acquired taste/ you're not listening properly. HAHA munching on walkers- cheese&amp;onions nw
joy	tweets	@JonoH Did find it weird as I think u gave me a ff recommendation too. All sorted then. I can vote for legalisation of pot too if u want
joy	tweets	The wedding couldn't have been more perfect
joy	tweets	@larasati Uh?Your US iTMS credit is loaded by your friend?That's really nice  I wonder when any of my friends do the same for me.Hahaha.
joy	tweets	@an_other Excellent analogy
joy	tweets	@MDurbin not long till we go shopping dude, its gunna be rather fun
joy	tweets	@ukdavew bank holiday Mondays rock, particularly when they follow the kind of Sunday I just had
joy	tweets	oh that was good cake
joy	tweets	@carlocruuuz good! you joined the dark side hahahaha we have cookies!
joy	tweets	@omarabid Hehehe  I didn't really know that! Well, use your blog or Twitter to suggest interesting topics for ppl to engage in
joy	tweets	@smashingmag No worries
joy	tweets	:: holy kraut. I canNOT stay up this late. But the book is done and in the author's in box.  Tucking in with kitty-boys now. Nighty-night.
joy	tweets	heading to Xtra-vision to get part 2 of Season 3 - CSI Miami baby!!!
joy	tweets	@MikeEscamilla @tonyhawk  that was flippin' sweet, dudes. thanks for sharing
joy	tweets	morning all, im off to sell 1.3 million quids worth of pproperty, well, i hope to, if i do i owe you all a drink on my commission
joy	tweets	So proud of cg, took 5 yrs in the making to get that number 1 spot  gnight twitter bugs...time to read myself to sleep.
joy	tweets	@racquel_xx i'm just about to start the second one  theres only two up yeah?
joy	tweets	@kfb1991 I can't really say much because none of it is set in stone.. but I'm planning a charity concert for Cystic Fibrosis
joy	tweets	@Tizzik Thank you! I hope the same for you!
joy	tweets	Good Morning! &quot;RETURN TO WILLEN ISLAND - Spring has most definitely sprung&quot; ... http://bit.ly/EyRtT ... enjoy
joy	tweets	Don't let the sun catch you crying - Oh my.. so cool  http://tinyurl.com/cugy8c
joy	tweets	She got it , ohh baby she got it.SINGAPORE I'm going to rock your city
joy	tweets	Photo: Got my prints a few days ago, ready for the NorskArt exhibition  http://tumblr.com/xht1phgl3
joy	tweets	oh happy day!!! nice weather, smiling, happy baby and icecream later
joy	tweets	@hanaames Ah good. Glad to be useful.
joy	tweets	uft im tutoring the lil sis  shes so cute, even though shes an eighth grader :p
joy	tweets	@unpolishedgem I love avocado shakes!  Especially so when blended with gula melaka and a touch of santan... noice
joy	tweets	@michaelmknight Good morning! Nothing in particular, meeting people and having drinks this evening  what are you doing with your Monday?
joy	tweets	@david_henrie http://twitpic.com/4jbsq - looks so good!!  i want one!!
joy	tweets	@Alleexx1995 umm get ready, help my mum, give GJ his presents when he gets up (could be a while), wait for people to arrive, then party
joy	tweets	Haha Happy Star Wars Day!  &quot;May the 4th be with you&quot; - clever
joy	tweets	Yaaawwwnnn.....Heading out to the gym, then off to work. Happy Monday.
joy	tweets	@theroughguide at least I have an ironed shirt and i'm not really shockable.  hope you have a good day. Xxxx
joy	tweets	Morning world. Hello Bank Holiday! Cold and grey and rainy here. Feel like colouring thanks to @slammerkinbabe so might do that this am
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day  May the fourth be with you ;)
joy	tweets	1 day to my Birthday !
joy	tweets	Got my tattoo fixed today, and it didn't hurt to much, thank god  Can't wait to get the next one. $$$.
joy	tweets	@SheridanPaige loool sheridan ive got swine flu but im still coming into skl tomorrow same way  hehe
joy	tweets	Days with cellstorms, I like it!
joy	tweets	YAY! GO TAYLOR SWIFT!! come to australia again!!!
joy	tweets	@GinJam it was an adventure to say the least. I've been to nicer parts of Norf London but will stick with the south for today
joy	tweets	@doast fantastic.... pick up a hooker for me
joy	tweets	sky diving was aaaaaawwwesome!!!! kinda bored now though
joy	tweets	@saraesse right on!  i'm 29 myself... i turn 30 in october. i think that pretty much makes us awesome
joy	tweets	Just touched down in Changi. +1/2 hrs to kill before heading to Penang.  Must fly singapore air more often!
joy	tweets	out for supper tonight with kurumi in 10 minutes
joy	tweets	Son's gluten free birthday cake done.  http://twitpic.com/4jbwy
joy	tweets	@lauramorris1983 good luck with it..Do well!! My best wishes are with you!
joy	tweets	@ComedyQueen Well.... you're not called comedyqueen for nowt - are you lol
joy	tweets	@jpallis001 John - more present than ever- even online  #edumedia09
joy	tweets	Tweetie v helpfully shrinks longer tweet. Brilliant.
joy	tweets	@tdes Thanks for asking, Sarah  I am glad tomorrow (5th) is a holiday here in Korea. I will have some rest and I will be right as rain.
joy	tweets	Sittin at home, hellllllllsssssss yeah   Got the girrrrrl, the boysssss &amp; 2 mangy cats, this is a good time in my life.  Goodnight twitter
joy	tweets	The new view out of my window  http://twitpic.com/4jbx2
joy	tweets	morning twit-friends! welcome to my new followers
joy	tweets	@bexiclepop cambs will be better im sure! eeeeeeeeee under a week now  we meeting on the Sunday?
joy	tweets	Back in the saddle after four awesome days with @leeprovoost and the old gang  Will try and avoid a tweet flood after a long radio silence
joy	tweets	BARA, BOOBS, CLOSETS, ADVENTURE. AGGGHHHH ENOUGH! Muak mcm baby Gary ku sudah
joy	tweets	@andrewbravener Happy Birthday!  What's better than getting birthday greetings from strangers? Very little, that's what! (I kid!) &lt;3
joy	tweets	thanks steph...must keep me updated when it's ur turn
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day! May the Fourth be with you.
joy	tweets	@blondiepops oooh sounds yummy.  If you get a chance to take some pics  please add them to the website as we don't have many pies on there
joy	tweets	Dow futures up 60 points in over night trading. Looks like May is off to a good start so far  /f
joy	tweets	@LovestruckxO It's simple for those who know how to use it hahaa, i'm glad you're okay  x x x
joy	tweets	@IlseDeLange An elephant? LOL Try painting it from the back
joy	tweets	Enjoying afternoon tea with my friends.. Cake delicacies equal sweet time
joy	tweets	@dhughesy safer to say that your cube is now a sphere ... but roll with it buddy ... it is an awesome time ... esp the 1st one
joy	tweets	Yay for bank holidays
joy	tweets	TAKE THAT, TAKE THAT!!!! IN YOUR FACES!!!!!!!!!!!!  Robbie won!
joy	tweets	Lil cuz coming round today she 5  aww  haha
joy	tweets	@LLCOOLDAVE yeah they r. im going to their concert at the end of the month
joy	tweets	I am now following @TherealWill - One of my favourite actors!
joy	tweets	@spreadingjoy Hello there! Thankyou. I always seem to make a difference in  someone's life everyday.
joy	tweets	Wow...VirtualPC screen does not go black anymore in Win7 RC! Also, there's no NVidia driver crashing...I'm happy I did the upgrade
joy	tweets	eating Nesquick cereal - 1st time since i was like 10 - good times
joy	tweets	@fudgecrumpet mines early nov,,,, will go through it 2 gether buddy!!! Man power
joy	tweets	Only 8 oral left!  then I have to learn them all but oh welllll, at least I don't have to write them
joy	tweets	Done some positive affirmation now back to the Japanese yay for bank holiday Monday
joy	tweets	@Dannymcfly i'm the one that kept touching your willy last night  oh you were amazing, thank you so much! x
joy	tweets	@DHughesy good job at the logies this year. Hell funny, and you're right about the baggin the logies tradition... so very Aussie!
joy	tweets	@DHughesy so make the most of it  enjoy
joy	tweets	off to the land of pillows and blankets... mm, and the fan up on high... and did I mention the blankets? my favorite time ever.
joy	tweets	@ahoppi I hope you're tired for a good reason then
joy	tweets	@OliviaPinupArt A big welcome to Twitterlandz grrl! Really wish I could have made it to the Bettie show,  glad to hear it was a success
joy	tweets	Jammin To Capital In My Garde  xx
joy	tweets	A salute to Chapel Hill North Carolina. From SY  * ? http://blip.fm/~5jgj3
joy	tweets	@mkarim thanks for the #followfriday as you can see us South Africans were on holiday on fri
joy	tweets	@lccsweetme haha that's way cool! Good morning
joy	tweets	I'm finally going to bed, everybody.. whatever you're doing, BE BLESSED!
joy	tweets	I'm a good girl...ALL work is done
joy	tweets	Is in starbucks
joy	tweets	@awrd but it is a good one
joy	tweets	Just planted flovers in the school garden with my 3 yr old...VERY MUCKY but GREAT FUN
joy	tweets	@Hannah_21Thanks, I'll keep working on her   @RoshiKK lol good idea!
joy	tweets	aha @Sadie_marie my brother's wallpaper on his phone is Dolly The Sheep  aha i'm loling.
joy	tweets	kinda done trying. ugh. oh well it was worth the effort.   long day tomorrow. night tweeters!
joy	tweets	@johnmcginn Hi John! Thanks for sharing that quote! It's soo true
joy	tweets	@babydestiny24 thanks  I'll check those out.
joy	tweets	Finally in my bed, &amp; I must say, I had quite an evening. I'm ready to tackle this work week &amp; see what next weekend has in store for me
joy	tweets	@xanderprod glad you liked the gmail add-on too. We visual people like the asthetics to be right don't we.
joy	tweets	enjoying my Bank Holiday  Just had a meeting with the real estate agent who will offer our Amsterdam apartment for rent
joy	tweets	@AdeelAhmad Rofl u did?  Hahaha! Lemme tell Salman Munir =P =P
joy	tweets	just watched that  new T-mobile advert on Youtube.. i love it  &quot;hey jude!!!!!!&quot;
joy	tweets	@Jason25329 yeah well a deadline is in T-9 hours, that's architecture for you, oh well... mmm that coffee sounds like a good idea
joy	tweets	@abledragon The geek in me won.  I am building my own photoblog theme...
joy	tweets	Good morning!!!! Yes is 5:57am
joy	tweets	@Dannyvan I googled &quot;engagement rings&quot; &amp; this is the EXACT ring i want.it was the 1st result too  *sigh* love it.http://twurl.nl/jaq5j4
joy	tweets	exams. thennn some sexy time.
joy	tweets	@paceyy Yeah I know  Things would be so much easier that way. I'm bored the boys are playing tekenen (I can't spell it)
joy	tweets	my body isnt itching anymore
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day! May the 4th be with you!
joy	tweets	@deanomarr Italy or greece for me  Love Italian men hehe ;)
joy	tweets	@twilightfairy ah well diff in opinion, no problemo
joy	tweets	I just got home.  i bought twiggies and a toothbrush that promises to make my teeth 60% cleaner. - http://tweet.sg
joy	tweets	@gozinepetter love the song and liked the movie
joy	tweets	@TReiz I do. But still... twitter.com/monicafrancesca to see Gino in drag!!! @monicafrancesca and @ginoboi. this IS fun!
joy	tweets	@megfrancesca really was the best night ever
joy	tweets	@dannywood Good Morning! Hope that you enjoy your run &amp; gym workout this morning. Can't wait to hear some of your new songs.   &lt;3Pennie
joy	tweets	@bobbiehouston haha that photo is too funny! I hope he wasn't disturbed by passengers too much during the flight
joy	tweets	Joining twitter! Just added a random person
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day
joy	tweets	Hurray! &quot;Summer-time&quot; starts today, meaning I only have to work until 4 pm, instead of 4.30. Until August! Yay!
joy	tweets	@aquapunk @_Mintyfresh Thanks very much!!
joy	tweets	watched 17 again. sooo good!
joy	tweets	a sunny day brights up the day!
joy	tweets	Ken Wilber - Realistic Expectation of Integral Wisdom: http://tinyurl.com/clfzdx ...very interesting.  I don't mind the video quality.
joy	tweets	ive spent a lazy day today finding some interesting people to follow  its reinforced the saying... it takes all sorts of people ...
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 the video on myspace is so funny...u run a lot hahaha i voted
joy	tweets	In London! Off to do the tourist thing!
joy	tweets	I just eat a reallyyy good ice cream!
joy	tweets	On the way to sthlm - it will maybe be a movie   // cool http://gykd.net
joy	tweets	@phoebealice_x when my brother is 18, i will have moved!
joy	tweets	@scaree  I hope today just flows through and lots of nice things happen at work so you come home happy
joy	tweets	@weareinvincible THIS CALLS FOR A HIGH FIVE!  (Don't miss, hotshot xD)
joy	tweets	Im still in my my pjs  but I haveto get dressed cuz Im going to see Dancing on Ice live
joy	tweets	@stephenfry gotta catch 'em all
joy	tweets	is eating a delicious cheese-bread  (much batter than ANY  Bagle)
joy	tweets	Okayyy  you can read it to me cause then I'll feel special haha.
joy	tweets	@chris_CLP i heard 88db is better for mixing down...especially  if you use 808 sounds
joy	tweets	didn't twitter much yesterday.apologizes for not responding,goodnight
joy	tweets	@miafreedman you looked gorgeous last night! hope you had a HEAP of fun.
joy	tweets	wow my weekend was pretty fucking epic  grr school tmrw ;'(
joy	tweets	@erry_reeves Thx Ri.. That's all because of His grace  Kalo ngga, aku uda nyerah dr awal, hehe.. His grace is enough..
joy	tweets	@Doc_the_BigMan hey! Ive never caught enyone on live before!
joy	tweets	From ME and no one else! Muhahahaaaa! Well maybe Jesse
joy	tweets	@cetras lol, anyway ni shi wai guo ren
joy	tweets	@bertgoethals Cool, I used to live 5 houses to the left of that place  Always something going on :p
joy	tweets	lm @ TGI Fridays on a Monday.. Hee hee!
joy	tweets	is back in fine old melbourne town....
joy	tweets	is sipping OJ in the sun in San Pedro at La Soberana again, with sunny smiley Nita...  The garlic tomato paste is delicious! Yummy!!!
joy	tweets	@_elj OK nice one, cheers boss.  Am liking the lack of FCS today.
joy	tweets	@missdaisymusic is ben! got yourself a twitter, good work
joy	tweets	Up, I slept in till 11.02 !!! Shooting a new vid today
joy	tweets	i'm in the garden. Making pictures, weed an sweep. The weather is nice!! See you l8ter people!
joy	tweets	I designed a new shirttttt.
joy	tweets	cant wait for thursday!
joy	tweets	@charavel nice! now gimmeh some nice stuff
joy	tweets	&quot;It's Like That (and that's the way it is)&quot; - Run DMC  ? http://blip.fm/~5jgvk
joy	tweets	@Cocodemerusa Joined you on facebook!
joy	tweets	is getting ready to start the work week...work 2 off 3 then work 3 more. It's not bad  Have a great one everybody!!
joy	tweets	@Mizz_Trouble my pleasure sweetie! Lookin forward 2 gettin 2 know u
joy	tweets	I am back from my weekend getaway! Energized for another week, bring it on! lol
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie Hey David, I'm wondering if you received a letter that has a song in it? From Malaysia? please reply  and have a nice day!
joy	tweets	happy bank holiday monday twitter! bath time, spring clean, movie marathon , lazy day
joy	tweets	installing dvt card for loonix, fingers crossed, I hope it turns out as well as my android upgrade
joy	tweets	@themanwhofell compliment taken. Thanks. Key is to be yourself
joy	tweets	yay back at home
joy	tweets	Hi Charlie, thank you for following me! Nice to know there's another Ollmann in the new world...
disgust	tweets	#com125: we have a quiz! again .. Feliza is bugging us again  its getting very annoying!
joy	tweets	Just up  the longest lie in a while thank goodness, neck still painful but today i am going to head out (y)!
joy	tweets	Apparently it's #starwarsday
joy	tweets	100 Followers  Bom Dia!!
joy	tweets	Is getting more and more excited about thorpe park tomorrow
joy	tweets	@veronica11258 ok i got you! Knight!
joy	tweets	@kaushal Thanks man  glad u liked it
joy	tweets	Happy Bank Holiday
joy	tweets	@CyranDorman Woot! I have created something inspirational! ;) Look forward to seeing more of your writings
joy	tweets	@pattidigh we are all so proud of you! I am seriously thinking of joining you next year. Got to get training
joy	tweets	Finally was blessed to see the MOON
joy	tweets	OK. Happy Star Wars Day, everyone. As they say, May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	@PembsDave Hope you're having a relaxing day. I feel so laid back I can't stand up
joy	tweets	@NZNewsboy damn straight you know what the game is, and if you've heard the tracks you'll know why I've been rocking out
joy	tweets	@timscott2 Cool. Whenever I see someone is making so much. I tell them I WILLING to help them spend  So what's your deal?
joy	tweets	Had to play one more and share the vibe of this song. Something about it jus' brings out the feel good.   Ta... ? http://blip.fm/~5jh0u
joy	tweets	@hypnoticzexy Ooooh, so you're the dream husband. lol =D I saw Stranthorpe on a map today and thought thought of dear Shea! lol
joy	tweets	Time to snuggle up in bed with the electric blankie on
joy	tweets	Nothing like 10P to kick-off the Bank Holiday, dig the haircut Luke! Next stop...Selfridges
joy	tweets	@chuckdarw1n whew! thassa relief
joy	tweets	@lollipop26 that was a really good interview to read, really enjoyed it  x
joy	tweets	is listening to Sunlounger's music, waiting for the sun to set.
joy	tweets	@christhesoul well doesn't that look fab, even if I do say so myself!
joy	tweets	is such a good big cousin as shes taking her little cousin to see hannah montana the movie next weekend
joy	tweets	@KADENMCNEIL - try thinking of something calm and peaceful, such as relaxing on the beach.
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day  - May the Fourth be with you
joy	tweets	@fromlucy thank you dearie -- I just followed dome of them on there too!
joy	tweets	@keza34 @ComedyQueen morning
joy	tweets	@thorsonb well.. i dont have to do any resits... lol... so its MY last exam
joy	tweets	new Delerium's music video (http://tr.im/kpu3). mixed by Tiesto. i guess Bill Leeb finally forgot his music's roots
joy	tweets	@vectorfunk Presentation went well  Yes, I also met a buch of cool people. Checked your portfolio, nice work/details in the projects.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jccd - and also these hi top Reeboks.  cause i can
joy	tweets	yaaayyy !  no work today
joy	tweets	Don't we all love bank holidays
joy	tweets	done with the dentist until November
joy	tweets	Needs a yummy breakfast after her shift
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you  (via @matthew858) Thanks. I get it now. And it's awesome.
joy	tweets	Having a pj dayy.....Doesnt happen veryy often
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 WOOOOOOOOOO   are you coming to Nottingham at any point?  lovelovelove&lt;3
joy	tweets	Came back from Bishopstorford! Went to my Aunt's wedding party by the way. It was fun! I got to see my cousins again after about 3 years
joy	tweets	@colbyrne totally agree
joy	tweets	@Cyberwest thanks for that twitpic, sure made me laugh
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jcfg - About to cycle within this quarry on Shipley glen near Baildon moor before heading back through the woods
joy	tweets	@BeMeaningful thanks for FF wink
joy	tweets	Mahalo  great show! @CollieBuddz  aloha, thx for makin it out to Kauai, we enjoyed it!  Safe trip
disgust	tweets	HEY YOU' ALL SUCK;its anybody on there :s im so bored common answear me
joy	tweets	@areyoumee yeaaaah lol, i'm just insane
joy	tweets	@tomfelton http://twitpic.com/2dmtn - I saw this pic and it reminded me of you in Anna and the King.. so cuuuute little fella
joy	tweets	i am kind of excited to go to school today. i dont know why. hopefully it will be a good day
joy	tweets	Pretty happy with how things have changed over the past 2 months...definitely for the best
joy	tweets	@ankitbathija Did we hear our name ? Thanks Ankit, get them on to our parlour   #HokeyPokeyBandra
joy	tweets	Ideas gallore!!  Rock Opera FTW!!!! Yes tweets Kayleigh and I are writing a rock opera.  For more info email us: CoatAndKay@hotmail.com
joy	tweets	FINALLY DONE WITH MY PROJECT !  now its 3:12 am  haha goodnights ! &lt;3
joy	tweets	@Wookiesgirl I was thinking, &quot;I never see her tweet.&quot; Well, duh - if I don't follow you, I can't! Now I can.
joy	tweets	Ok Twitter - show me what your all about
joy	tweets	I uploaded my  random fandom trailer to youtube, check it out in here. It's also in HD  http://tinyurl.com/d5oyfl
joy	tweets	What do you think I'm doing at the moment? Yeah you guessed it  http://www.phoenixfm.com/listen-now.php
joy	tweets	CAPONES island in 2 days!!! my summer is just starting...
joy	tweets	&quot;We did it we did it oh yea yea yea no eating here tonite woo eating here tonight no no no eating here tonite you on a diet&quot; finding nemo
joy	tweets	Already back from shopping and about to do a nice monday roast
joy	tweets	@vileness now that is hilarious. I can imagine their reactions.
joy	tweets	@sofiavalentine cool baby, when are you going to go? I'll be there in July!
joy	tweets	@R1CC1 that's funny...well, i'll say bye again b/c i'm really THAT delirious...lol... i worked 13 hrs i think...crazy...anyhoo bye lady!
joy	tweets	Done! Finally.. Yay.. Now I can relax for.. Well one day ;D haha..
joy	tweets	@WatariGoro Yep. I hope my lame attempt with the spaces helped me to hinder them, lol. I know tomorrow I guess.
joy	tweets	@Megzx lol, get watching it again  hehe
joy	tweets	@lisibo &quot;grace and skills of a newborn giraffe &quot; is a great visual aid!    Fabulous language to use as an example for kids.  Thx!
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with me today as I round off the weekend with one more session - happy 4th y'all from the Fintster
joy	tweets	In honour of #starwarsday, I have fired up a New Hope in the DVD player in full THX glory
joy	tweets	@louisebolotin Funny how much difference simple changes make! Bed looks ace
joy	tweets	Welcome new followers also
joy	tweets	@MiaMiaDC Good morning MiaMiaDC  My weekend was great and I just had my Monday, which was also great  I hope you have a wonderful day!
joy	tweets	@suziperry Yay good for both of you. Enjoy the break - you probably need it after such hectic weekend  Take care hun xxxx
joy	tweets	I just got a twitter account
joy	tweets	@tankianann it actually is ;) According to all the retweets, at least!
joy	tweets	@lharp @franto it's an app to finally face the truth: you lack time, and never be able to achieve all your goals in life?
joy	tweets	looking forward to Ben's baseball game tonight
joy	tweets	@MelanieFresh27 Yep, tomorrow night, 10:30! Just saw the ad *squeals* LOVED this season
joy	tweets	@piyush_ranjan Did I ever mention what a nice and awesome dude you are?
joy	tweets	mint choc ice cream whilst studying.....now thats good
joy	tweets	@emnorm ha ha, no, will be thankful i am not dragging them up a mountain today
joy	tweets	Good episode of Top Gear tonight.
joy	tweets	With that said, I'm out til later. Enjoy your day everyone!
joy	tweets	@lapix Thanks Ennio
joy	tweets	@Andreaheartscgh ooo thanks for the danger radio link  loves it...how did the test go?
joy	tweets	Caught on Google Street View http://twitzap.com/u/aw4 - A couple of good ones
joy	tweets	@boffy my sympathies - been here 20 minutes and had enough - will escape soon
joy	tweets	@harlequinne haha neither am I. It doesn't matter though you guys do what you want
joy	tweets	@heyuguysblog No I haven't had chance to watch that yet...going to have to get hold of it.   Thanks for the tip.
joy	tweets	I'm wondering how big the rumored new 'large screen' Kindle will be - http://is.gd/wyFI -and when we can start seeing K12 textbooks on it
joy	tweets	@LifesavvyChic I appreciate your kind words. I am glad that the words resonate with you
joy	tweets	is feeling very happy despite the amount of work that i need to do today!!! Happy times
joy	tweets	@FollowSavvy @FollowMandy heyyhoo!heyhey
joy	tweets	Namaste! Hooray for Monday! Undaunted by a 3am wakeup, I consider it is 9am in London and feel justified. Bright side to everything!
joy	tweets	@SonjaNorwood ,,, hey mom,,
joy	tweets	It worked. Cool AND the gang!
joy	tweets	On my way home. I think i am over him
joy	tweets	@guybatty Yes,it's beautiful and i'm fortunate to live in the thick of it..Very relaxing
joy	tweets	@ireal Well alright. But #dollhouse is still fricking awesome. Elisha's performance in last weeks episode sold me there too, finally
joy	tweets	@inkcircles Thank you!
joy	tweets	@quinland    Lmao Yes its on the 27th  I get so excited lol
joy	tweets	@katoi awww, a very happy birthday to him
joy	tweets	@nikkiwoods no problem! i think it's a great thing to reflect on.
joy	tweets	gooodmorning people of earth!
joy	tweets	@ckanal funny you should say...am filling it out as we speak ;) cheers!
joy	tweets	Can you dig it, sucka?  Booker T.  Former WWE Wrestler
joy	tweets	looking at tabs for all of the &quot;Boys Like Girls&quot; songs
joy	tweets	@tialebott haha you are just as bad as I am.... Well perhaps a little less retarded . I am attempting to knit myself gloves this winter
joy	tweets	@Sally_E u work hard Sally  Not sure i can muscle up the courage to go on my own, it will be hard without you laughing at my unco-ness
joy	tweets	playing sudoku while mommy makes me breakfast &amp; lunch
joy	tweets	@chromasia I saw your tweet minutes before going to lunch.  Decided to skip that today. Thanks for saving me the money  Speedy recovery!
joy	tweets	@fallenstar_ I got 71! That's more than I'm following... I feel special now
joy	tweets	@jeanettewang Nice! That would be a feat for me...The husband's out clocking some miles for Sundown too!
joy	tweets	@jjkraal Thanks! Fotoreportage coming soon
joy	tweets	@Blondie_HK very funny
joy	tweets	@fallenstar_ Oh ok then, I've been there before for a wedding. It was heaps nice there. I'm a big fan of Qld
joy	tweets	Thanks everyone for twittering with me. Still a newbie.. so if you have friends who you would like to invite here, please help a girl out
joy	tweets	Threee WORDS . . . YOUTUBE BAMBOOZLE SHOW
joy	tweets	@mariamabdillahi welcome back chica! hope you had a nice break
joy	tweets	@DrRus @BruceBrownNC Good morning, gents!  How are ya today?
joy	tweets	hope this day will be nice as the sun that are upon us
surprise	tweets	@ankitbathija Thanks mate, just came on board here at Twitter ...  .. tweet up sounds great..
joy	tweets	Good Morning everyone!  Have a great Monday!  Thanks for following!
surprise	tweets	@kontorrecords yes i do, how can I not?
joy	tweets	Just booked my tickets for London on thursday, i'm so exicted
joy	tweets	@Zokathepuppy heyyy! how are you todayy?!
surprise	tweets	@blue_north27 http://twitpic.com/4jcjr - Mmm yummy... looks like an invitation to me
joy	tweets	@Rupert_Grint About the dog thingy, an adorable golden retriever would be awesome !  Or a husky, too. x
surprise	tweets	I'm on Twitter now... how cool am I? and now let's go to McDo
joy	tweets	just helping myself to some caramel digestives
joy	tweets	@Japan_Blogs Congratulations lovely Japanese Children Happy Kodomo no hi
joy	tweets	you'll be good eloise
joy	tweets	I'm so drunk haha. Cant wait for round 2 tomorrow night  Gnight ppl
joy	tweets	anybody have any new song ideas?
surprise	tweets	@DJ_Joelted i will definately be there tomorrow
joy	tweets	pacquiao fight was fun at home wif fam and melissa sat.    today was a mission to ikea. srsly 4 different freeways to ge to burbank.
surprise	tweets	@ladybug8320 that is definitely a blast from the past
joy	tweets	@clarexsaula I am excited. Ashley and Matt should be here within the next half hour and that's when it all really starts for me.
joy	tweets	@pradeepto he he! I will send it thru anurag
joy	tweets	Having fun  With my friend !
joy	tweets	@kevmarmol Agree!
joy	tweets	@ddlovato how was bamboozle? i wish i could've gone. &amp;&amp; have you worked with laurie ann gibson? she told me you guys worked together
joy	tweets	Right I now need breakfast. Let's see if I can make it while Tweeting ;-) What am I thinking, I'm a bloke, multitasking is out lol
joy	tweets	@scullyrific Hell Yeah!
joy	tweets	@que_day26 YES YES YES! http://snurl.com/hbn90 i used YOUR song in mine
joy	tweets	@WhitneyEVE i love the new hairdo! haha, and i live in NY too, so yeah it was REALLY hott!
surprise	tweets	@kate38381849 haha, yeah i meant mall! -winks back-
surprise	tweets	@paulcockerton that is truly impressive. Can't come close to that. Takes the argument over whether web needs subs to a new level though
joy	tweets	@marcooth GREAT!! i obviously should check twitter more often to know all the important stuff thats going on
joy	tweets	Handed in. Can relax a bit now.
joy	tweets	Oh snap... kinda nuts right now... @basedmagazine:  I've told at least 27  Thanks babes.
joy	tweets	made my pin hole camera todaaaaay. need to get some film now!  http://tinyurl.com/cw8wp2
joy	tweets	is finally starting her assignments
joy	tweets	@krissy_tina @_adriii guys  i am literally going to sydney in the june/july hols. can we meet? i wanna try one of those lindt cafes!
joy	tweets	spending some quality time with my fender tele deluxe...true love
joy	tweets	@StaciJShelton Well tell me what fashion tips you need and I'm your woman  hehehe
joy	tweets	@igortizz hahahahaha u look really good in ur picture
joy	tweets	Jimmy Eat World's initials are JEW....new favorite band
joy	tweets	@Milomilkshake you can put a saucepan full of water on the cooker to heat up the water...indian style  scrabbled are the best!!!!
joy	tweets	????? ?? ??? ????????, ????? ?? ??? ???????, ??? ??? ?? ?????? ??? ??, ???? ??? ?? ???????... The magic of Rafi singing for Shammi Kapoor
joy	tweets	@DD_Lovato Never been better thanks  what are you up to?
joy	tweets	@emmao414 Thanks Emma! Plus: Squeeee! You're my first comment!!!
joy	tweets	what a beautiful morning ; it's time to get up and enjoy the sun
joy	tweets	@ShropshirePixie I've got some of those I used to use on my OES.  Good for the wrist muscles though
joy	tweets	Wearing my new Victoria's Secret slippers
joy	tweets	@alancostello well...as long as you have trees  yeh definately need to go find one, maybe after the crutches tho! :p
joy	tweets	chillin an havin a drink
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	(@JMBuckett) Oh snap... kinda nuts right now... @basedmagazine:  I've told at least 27  Thanks babes.
joy	tweets	@redvers I've been quite lucky this weekend... Slight headache here n there, but nothing incapacitating  yay me! Poor Carol tho...
joy	tweets	might start Spanish...any min now....nope just can't do it! xx
surprise	tweets	@LauriM OH WAIT, I read that wrong. OK hellboy
joy	tweets	@shadowdealer I did  For Thursday
joy	tweets	Watching Ladyhawke on channel 4 &amp; most likely to stay in bed all day
joy	tweets	I'm currently enjoying NOT being at work this bank holiday  Frasier and Jeremy Kyle so far. Enjoy the extra day off Tweeters!
joy	tweets	@avrilchan that is of course, u don't mind some old ppl as well
joy	tweets	Typical overcast bank holiday Monday, glad we went to the beach on Saturday
joy	tweets	@stripedshirt errr ok, most people have their espressos in the morning, ice latte at noon and warm latte in the evening!
joy	tweets	@cbedon thanks alot. Hope you can help spread the word and get people involved. We are already making a real difference
surprise	tweets	@AandDfilms OMG rated 10 stars
joy	tweets	It's Happy Star Wars Day, LOL.  May the force be strong with you all.
surprise	tweets	OH MY GOD! OH MY GOD! OH MY GOD! New SUPERNATURAL starts tonight!  New Sam and Dean! Oh My god! can't breathe!  &lt;3 &lt;3
joy	tweets	@julierockaholic well she likes it so i call it a SUCCESS
surprise	tweets	@avataraang awww ) where'd you get that? hugh is so thin. no traces of being wolverine yet. btw, who's that other guy besides RDJ?
surprise	tweets	has just finished watching masterchef. Surprisingly (perhaps), it's good
joy	tweets	Just been playing some pacman on the box......a few achvs,taking my GS to exactly 47000........nice
joy	tweets	@col4man Thanks
joy	tweets	Fight Club 10th anniversary re-enacting. Nice tattoos  http://img.suicidegirls.com/media/albums/6/57/13576/658166.jpg
joy	tweets	@ciaoamalfi Its great when locals stop you to ask for directions, and even better when you know the answer
joy	tweets	DH is just about finished making his giant Trio candy bar. Thank the heavens. His work mates are in for a treat tomorrow!
joy	tweets	ha, the first request for sending a paper copy of my thesis
joy	tweets	@emma_BMTH i also want to attend the tafe gig  I asked mum about soundwave and she was like, hmmm possibly. which probably means yes.
joy	tweets	@jemshad cool.. look forward for frequent tweets
joy	tweets	@themaineman ooo enjoy  and thanks for looking out for ours
joy	tweets	will be heading to baguio in a few hours.
joy	tweets	@Loebette Hooray! Your avatar is back! Wil go and put it in the Gardeners zone now
joy	tweets	Think Big! &quot;The size of your thinking determines the size of your results&quot; Bob Proctor's great advice      http://www.wealthwithsoul.com
joy	tweets	Rose Romance is released here on Thursday, gonna get me some BPs
joy	tweets	midday and a half, time for lunch
joy	tweets	Awake and almost recovered from my Brother's Wedding at the Weekend
joy	tweets	Does anyone out there want to be REALLY awesome and buy me one of these for my birthday? http://poprl.com/1vN0
joy	tweets	pretty fun way to write a resignation  http://www.farbs.org/Message.html
joy	tweets	and so another week begins. this one has got to be better than the last
surprise	tweets	@magh aw. you level up. haha but just try to manage your money.
joy	tweets	@atbandre nice wedding ring, shiny!
joy	tweets	@MissxMarisa haha, yeah I think it's a bit of both
joy	tweets	@yohanik Hehe. Just found the Wikipedia page for the movie. And Last.fm confirms it. Thank you.  http://is.gd/iPrR
surprise	tweets	morrrning. time for school. (: time to learn!
joy	tweets	Great day training and having fun
joy	tweets	Finally X-Men Origins: Wolverine arrived, Time to play the game like a mad man, And then it's time for the review  /Patrick
joy	tweets	@johnkeithhart Thanks, glad you agree wth my follow or not policy
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day  Im going to make some pasta get showered and dressed and then watch some films. I like days off. I have 3 days off
joy	tweets	@TerrenceTaps Yeeeeah...I am so much better off, I think!
joy	tweets	@PrimeMinister3 Thanks! Am trying.. (keeping my chin up, ouch!)
joy	tweets	@wolfie_Rankin yep to you buddy  long time no talk, hows things and i see your cat still like sinking fangs into your ankle lol
surprise	tweets	Excited! Double Bio today.   I don't have a straightener and my hair looks horrendous at the moment. Wtf am I supposed to do?
joy	tweets	Great album..lucky to have this on vinyl.  ? http://blip.fm/~5jhtv
surprise	tweets	@ChrisCuomo oh my! Nothing like a rabid racoon to get the adrenaline going in the morning. Better than a cup of coffee.
joy	tweets	Oh oh! Going shopping with my best friend today! Yaay! Going to be so much fun  Need to get alot of new clothes..
joy	tweets	@fearnecotton http://twitpic.com/4jbn6 - yummm.....Very Nicee
joy	tweets	@stillsafe Lol read me like a book
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jcwm - YES, my #ubook Lenovo T400 finally arrived!
surprise	tweets	just 3 days left for the offf 2009 http://www.offf.ws/ in oeiras portugal... see you there
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jcxr - @georgiababesss i meann look at what i just found lol
surprise	tweets	@rscheuer OK looking forward to that
joy	tweets	@vjestep I'm mo nudge you again, better watch out!
joy	tweets	@Peulo I already did..
joy	tweets	@AceConcierge Glad you got there safe &amp; saw your daughter.  Enjoy your time there!
joy	tweets	Exploring Twitter's world! me 2
joy	tweets	@shaundiviney green day are the bomb  xx
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you! Hahahaha that'll neverrr get old
joy	tweets	@lizscherer cheer up buttercup! Rain will go away and hearts always mend. I can actually bet $ on that!
joy	tweets	@gothtart congratulations, you two are so well suited   have a lovely day x
joy	tweets	carolina won, yeah
joy	tweets	Happy star wars day everyone
joy	tweets	@kkmommy9802  I'm trying to get myself moving this morning!
joy	tweets	@jaisey ALOHA Jaisey! Im so excited. Supernatural is back on our TV  TONIGHT!!! its a Jensen FEST tonite!
joy	tweets	Im really excited! cant wait
joy	tweets	is going to relax and chill out tonight ... back to work tomorrow after a week off ... least I had a fun time with the girlfriend ...
joy	tweets	@Daniella001 thanks for agreeing with me
surprise	tweets	@grekwood laze about ! It's. The bank holiday law
surprise	tweets	@ewanspence Yay! I am not the only Eurovision fan on twitter  #eurovision2009
joy	tweets	ooo how i love a bank holiday  x
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day!
joy	tweets	@tamejhna I managed to find few places where you can combine fun, pleasure and savings but it took some planning though
surprise	tweets	@eyyJD Heard that your dad would be going here in September. Would you also come with him?
joy	tweets	@williambeekhuis hahahaha where is that train? I want on! That should be a wild ride
joy	tweets	@kiwikatnz Yay to being smokefree! Well done.
joy	tweets	i finished all my work!
joy	tweets	@iiacovou  hiya!  did you get a picture of your converse?? GET YOUR CONVERSE OUT!
joy	tweets	short work week for me
joy	tweets	Order Pizza from the Pizza Girl!  We have to sing about it!  I love that new song. so excited for the new song from JB PARANOID 4 days
joy	tweets	OMG i meant @RealHughJackman &lt;3 you're the perfect Wolverine,sir  hehe
joy	tweets	@mitchelmusso hey... Your on MY mind.
joy	tweets	@TheLonely Aww how sweet
joy	tweets	waitin 4 the skool bus soo tired nd still soo much 2 do...want 2 b lazy nd sleep but since I cnt ill sing all my fav songs
joy	tweets	home from school today
joy	tweets	thanks for the feedback everyone
joy	tweets	@caitlingray  lol hopefully it'll happen like next timee near the new album
surprise	tweets	@heyitskesa: Omg! I never got your message so I didn't notice until I was looking back a ways! Sorry, that was a good idea though...lol
joy	tweets	Rode a jeep home with my mentor. Heard his story being in UP FineArts. Pretty cool.
joy	tweets	I skip school way too often  I'm rather proud actually.
joy	tweets	Back from the Gym, and sorting through my Inboxes
joy	tweets	He he ...Happy #star wars day! May the 4th be with you  Brilliant!!
joy	tweets	Having a wonderful piece of cake for lunch - what else could I want???
joy	tweets	Well I am up and have been productive since 5:30am!!! Woohoo busy day with lots to do!
joy	tweets	@Souljaboytellem Goodnight lolsz
joy	tweets	@LCLaurenConrad Can't wait to see it tonite!! should be hilarious
surprise	tweets	@jakeperks - Woo! Great subject for this month. Now I can use my sparklers
joy	tweets	@shadowowns aww, &lt;3 why thank youu.
joy	tweets	what's good about working a double?...Jasmin
joy	tweets	@TheRealGinuwine ... thx for ur msg, so awesome!  luv the new single! xoxo
joy	tweets	think I'm gonna start writing a proper blog, can anyone recommend any good blog host thingys?
joy	tweets	@matildaxo ooohhh. I understand. I never get sick of her so im on your moms side  I guess your dad just likes what he likes....lol
joy	tweets	@ElePhatt  LOL thanks you,  nice meeting you aswell, looking forward to our tweetversation
surprise	tweets	@dj_sko next time just go online and show the club owner an ean golden video, hahaha...  (i am fan, did i mention that?! @djtechtools)
joy	tweets	Good morning world!  haha had fun at the movies last night ;D and school now... Hmm new shoes make it better  http://tinyurl.com/dfggwj
joy	tweets	@DReinhardt1 ooooh it's you lol I didn't know!! Have fun with your princess
joy	tweets	@rosewindale Itsurely will dear . in posted a presentation on Swine flu yest and it got 500 downloads in just a day!!i feels great
joy	tweets	@traceyctt I live for pain, bring it on
joy	tweets	My mom likes Milow's version of Ayo Technology... It's a good thing she doesn't have a clue what it's about.
joy	tweets	@red_hawt Hmm..  Interesting choice.
joy	tweets	@missgiggly Go the bubble bath!!!  Always relaxing.......
joy	tweets	@DanaBingham I know exactly what you mean. My treats are more 'awhile' than 'once in'
joy	tweets	@osocash  Hi, Thx for following  I teach some Chinese lessons on youtube, pls feel free to have a look www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn
joy	tweets	@rodney91 http://twitpic.com/4i3g6 - i love that game  xxxx
joy	tweets	Thanks @Mosskat you little star! Have been offered to come to JA for a weekender but dunno if I can afford to go. Looking into it now...
joy	tweets	@irontec Thanks for the support
surprise	tweets	Not to worry, noone got that one. Next question starts in 1 minute, get your thinking caps on
joy	tweets	@ShashiTharoor i hope such moments inspire you on your political journey back home. all the best
joy	tweets	@TipsByNate  Hi, Thx for following  I teach some Chinese lessons on youtube, pls feel free to have a look www.youtube.com/ChineseLearn
joy	tweets	Wow, it's so early. Just had the best conversation.
joy	tweets	@supprintdesign oh i like that let me c
joy	tweets	Lovely walk this morning with the missus; drizzle didn't matter
surprise	tweets	@kainaussie aww way to make me feel special
surprise	tweets	Finally changed my pic after wanting to do it for so long. I was getting rather sick of that black and white pic.
joy	tweets	@jeffpulver Done some book signings in Manchester. Nice people up there. Enjoy the week.
joy	tweets	@Clarrisani Thank you for approving my application at the TWA Forum, honey. Keep up the good work
joy	tweets	No school today - Not because of &quot;H1N1&quot;, but because a natural gas line broke on the interstate. RIDICULOUSNESS.
surprise	tweets	auntie diane wins quote of the day &quot;and hes the incredible hulk&quot;
joy	tweets	@euripidean bank holiday is going well, had a great band practice so still on a buzz
joy	tweets	@PaulHarriott Hahaha!! Tv isn't really my thing anyway..I more of a music girl
surprise	tweets	@BRIAN_____ re:firmware. Heh, just a coincidence. I didn't do anything. Maybe the SW guys heard you?
surprise	tweets	shall bring his own glass to work from tonight, no more 'half half' hor!!
joy	tweets	@nezua that blip is NOT to be misconstrued as qs on last night's convo... it's just a song i really love &amp; that rocks my morning
joy	tweets	@stephenfry I've made a game for you, Stephen- http://tinyurl.com/ctw4ld - well, actually it's for us, not you
joy	tweets	got an awesome hair cut todayyyy  it looks so hottt haha doing homework
joy	tweets	@poeticblasphemy I see you finally got to set up your Avatar. Too Cool
joy	tweets	@TheMakeupMuse I'm definitely make-up challenged. So, curling lashes and 'tined' moisturiser? Does this tip come with a glossary?
surprise	tweets	Waiting for the last movie to finish then am test screening Ghost of Girlfriends Past, glass of wine and lolly bag in hand, yay!
surprise	tweets	@laubow_ I did ! That was amaziiiing    I was able to see the whole stage and to dance and sing etc ! That was really great
joy	tweets	@zampeachie PANGE???!!!!! AHAHAHAHAHA. You two could meet up for drinks.
joy	tweets	@donnyeffrien good to know PLN's Earthday doesn't only happen in my neck of the woods
surprise	tweets	@mmmj You're watching Firepro0f?
surprise	tweets	@Sir_Almo shocking isnt it.. hmm... we will stop it..
joy	tweets	@thebraysmommy thx! Hoping it's a good week.
joy	tweets	@crazy_people sure is
surprise	tweets	My new design portfolio is finally on the web: http://www.designia.nl - Still needs some tweaking on the details but it's ok for now,
joy	tweets	excited to jam + and auditions
joy	tweets	Just sat down to play a quick hand of poker and won $5k on my first hand with a flush. I'm done for today
joy	tweets	@YousifMind good morning  3asa mo bs important classes ? :p
joy	tweets	get my wii fit in couple of hours!
joy	tweets	woo just made this, follow me
joy	tweets	@CyberSleeper Awww man that does suck big time  But look at it this way, it gives you something to look forward too, a nice long ride
joy	tweets	@JohnLauber @RealtyMan no one told me the mutual admiration society was meeting this morning! LOL  Hi boys!
joy	tweets	Flickr pics Chester Zoo: danwtmoon posted a photo:   &quot;WELCOME&quot; to Chester Zoo by Jockey  http://tinyurl.com/cq7qw8
joy	tweets	@cheryl_ann_cole @beccixboo i thinks thats right lol... please follow me... much appreciated
joy	tweets	In the arts having coffee and cake
joy	tweets	Digging the ideas behind railsbridge (http://railsbridge.org/)
joy	tweets	WOOOOO!! Twitterberry is working again!! Good morning everyone
joy	tweets	off to get ready for school. have an absolute wonderful day!
joy	tweets	Birthday Girl ?  blessed to live another year &amp; celebrate with loved ones
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day
joy	tweets	Kicking Back In The Holidays  No More School for a whiles
joy	tweets	My new design portfolio is finally online: http://www.designia.nl - Still needs some tweaking on the details but it's ok for now,
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day!!! May The 4th Be With You!
surprise	tweets	@rayvenn_nicolee haha..not quite as good a Super Ted!..but good none the less!  haha xx
joy	tweets	@Darke_Ascension Hope it's a great one for ya  http://myloc.me/tvD
joy	tweets	#Trackflashback: &quot;I Believe In A Thing Called Love&quot; by The Darkness - check it out...
joy	tweets	@happy_pills we have a punching bag here! but ive never touched it, covered with my brother's sweat.. but u can use it if u want! hehe
joy	tweets	Good morning!  Just took the longest shower ive ever taken in my life. Like 45 to 50 min shower!! Woah. lol
joy	tweets	your saaaaafe with mee(8) fucking epic times again last night  old friends and new friendships, good way to kick off this month!
surprise	tweets	Wolverine Was BOSS! Seriously, And Will.I.Am Was In It, What The Fuck ??
joy	tweets	yeaaaah tangerang in vacation
joy	tweets	Is on her way home bk to civilisation. Got my ipod bak  carnt wait for home x
joy	tweets	@Jayce_Kay planted in the garden last week, ive got to check on it
joy	tweets	@Ddubs_Ky_Monkey Hope u have an amazing day today Monkey! U deserve it!  No cheating on DEW &amp; looking at THE PICTURE! lol Happy Bday! &lt;3
surprise	tweets	@cheryltiu yup slowly recovering. it sucks that i can't eat the stuff i'm craving right now. my gums can't take it. how was your trip?
joy	tweets	@RichieSosa I want some....LOL  I got the coffee ha ha
joy	tweets	Away to the cinema tweet later may the 4th be with you all  x
joy	tweets	This song is a slap on you face!!  ? http://blip.fm/~5jib6
joy	tweets	@joonian Press 'Ctrl' on bottom right. The underscore for E71 is there.  KY
joy	tweets	is working.   I am so happy my job is a radio and not anything physically exhausting....
joy	tweets	finally Mike0hh's birthday &lt;3 can't wait to fucking ruin it
joy	tweets	@calbo i incredily love reading your tweets! they're so entertaining, keep it up.
joy	tweets	coach says have come along way, faster that alot of people  oh yeah whos the man. ohh very sore
surprise	tweets	Watir in ???????  http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/WATIR
joy	tweets	starting off my day with a little Northern Light
joy	tweets	Off to bed I go to dream of a world where Wal-Mart and Liquor stores all get blown up
joy	tweets	How I met your mother and Scrubs in role! YEAH! &quot;Cause I'm FLY!
joy	tweets	@urbalcloud hahaha! i have a secret door to the real batcave
joy	tweets	@Mollieandme Hello, you are sooo awesome!! Dont ever stop what your doing haha, You make me fall off my chair laughing  x
joy	tweets	@mmWine Lucky you  I face south so I can hear them, and see them reflected off Phillips Point
joy	tweets	unpacking my new toy arrived in the studio right now  it's called TC Finalizer. can't wait to check how it sounds !!!
joy	tweets	@carmenparnos thanks so much for the belated #followfriday shout out #payingitforward
surprise	tweets	@nsingman i got followed by one that says she doesn't talk to &quot;god people&quot;-i wonder if she talks to &quot;goddess people?&quot;
surprise	tweets	@eugenechua Tasmania devils and the mad cold... Not a bad start.
joy	tweets	@RachaelPhillips wow!! you really are a pretty talented lady, most impressed
joy	tweets	@joannaboothby freeeeeeeeeeeeeeeezING nigga im so excited to see you soooooooon!!!  lets go see 17 again AGAIN yehhaaaaaaa!
joy	tweets	Going home, see you at night in local time
joy	tweets	lol @ kalahari.net marketing - &quot;may the 4th be with you&quot;
joy	tweets	@ borgellaj  you know what? They're YOUR CATS
surprise	tweets	Star Warz day? Really..that is a hot topic? Man..oh man.. I'm just waiting for Star Trek!
joy	tweets	i have a feeling today is going to be amazing
joy	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx red eye huh?   yikes....get back safe   missin ya punk
joy	tweets	@varunshridhar Lets leave the nervousness until tomorrow!
joy	tweets	Gonna head into the shower now...  Going to a friend's birthday party =]
joy	tweets	@GregorBenjamin yeah, nothing like the heat of home.
joy	tweets	@Joerup I think it'll be more like a casual attendance instead of a review, as there might not be another issue of felix by then.  Thanks.
joy	tweets	@Rliversidge Great stuff, can't wait to hear it!
joy	tweets	@Andph112 hope you enjoyed your holiday
joy	tweets	@graemeskelly LOL biking is manly
joy	tweets	yay my research paper is finally 4 and a half pages&lt;3 not going on bus was not bad after all
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jcjj - Boagsie actually is still this small lol - him at 4 years old
joy	tweets	@m3nny5 iye neh...kurang tidur kayaknya. pulang pagian deh hari ini tidur langsung...haha. Thanks!
joy	tweets	@youcanknowgod thanks man. I really appreciate the kind words
joy	tweets	@imagined learn learn!... we can learn together!
joy	tweets	Good Morning, Twitter community! I just got finished eating a delicious stack of pancakes courtesy of my Mom and Bisquick.
joy	tweets	@jocelynseip Thank you - If you like please leave a comment and Subscribe!   Chicago another great musical.  Thanks for your support.
joy	tweets	Looking forward to Cambridge on the weekend and shopping with Ilze
surprise	tweets	@MissxMarisa haha!! someone with an axe just popped up at you Scenie!! what did you do???
joy	tweets	Score two days I get more food stamps good cause i want a safeway pizza
surprise	tweets	@bencollieruk No because why would it say &quot;New gift services&quot; on the page.. HA!
joy	tweets	Good morning!!! Who wants breakfast??
joy	tweets	ahah oh yes, i forgot, they need to earn money.. maybe we could get them jobs as checkout chicks if twitter takes over
joy	tweets	Morning everyone! Going to a gig now, then a run. Update you all later
joy	tweets	@AlanCarr hmm Have to admit was a good episode and his man bag was rather fetching
surprise	tweets	Just opened a facebook account, I'm a little confused I don't really get it. Twitter seems much better
surprise	tweets	@aussie_ali  really?  i'm in greensborough, but prev bundoora..
joy	tweets	Going shopping  Then Sunday dinner, round two :p
surprise	tweets	happy star wars day
joy	tweets	@dan_pentagram trip with school! get to go see a west end show and loads more stuff, its gonna be great
joy	tweets	add me on myspace?? www.myspace.com/pwnage_org  -&gt; pcFOpc
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday to my Whore
surprise	tweets	finally shifted from Twhirl to TweetDeck so I can filter through my close friends' updates  happy monday peeps
joy	tweets	schoool time. not doing much this week.  about 20 more days of school and it's time for NYC!  can't wait for the last day of school.
joy	tweets	just got up  Wheres the sun? =O
joy	tweets	yay sing it loud wed, fall out boy, all time low and cobra starship on friday  WIN
surprise	tweets	@xojennielynn or @lauren_ohh i think one of you should give a ride! please?
joy	tweets	@sillyyak11 haha well have fun at school! I'm gonna be sittin' at home with my italian restaurant by my side
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jdkq - Got a new belt  it's a sheriff star
joy	tweets	@jeffmello I did sales training for a couple of the papers. They paid my bills for a bit.
joy	tweets	@DinaRoberts thanks
surprise	tweets	@Booooooom I love how Alex Pardee colours his picturs, so differnt
joy	tweets	Alhamdulillah PFP exam was alright~ It's Strategic Management time!
joy	tweets	@jeffparks That would be most welcome
joy	tweets	@FONEJACKER12009 haha I do not know how to work blip apart from the obvious! thanks for reblipping my song  have a nice day xxx
joy	tweets	gunna spend today with my sexy best friend
joy	tweets	@rylie023 i think you'd look cute in the beanie hat
joy	tweets	@gingerying if you decide to take a break on your paper..the link is a perf-choreo, cute&amp;cheesey but enjoyable   http://tinyurl.com/ddnqv5
joy	tweets	@cassiewho haha no problem, it's fun isn't it
joy	tweets	Mmmm holiday commercials really ARE nice
joy	tweets	I've just realised - 400 FOLLOWERS! YAY!  xx
joy	tweets	@Prodigy702 haha FINALLY !!  hiii friend .
joy	tweets	@tintinex Morning  Glad to hear about your happy news!
joy	tweets	@OceanCity thank you.  we had a blast
joy	tweets	Goodmorning world!
joy	tweets	@xoxokimmie good morning
surprise	tweets	@Devinwade heyyyyyyyyyyy! Look who it is
joy	tweets	@cmykara Something like that!
surprise	tweets	@johnlacey had someone tell me tonight &quot;there are only 2 states to be in, QLD and Pissed&quot;
joy	tweets	supernatural tonight  yay
surprise	tweets	@typicalhigh Yay me!  But, what in particular?
joy	tweets	Soon my new job starts  I'm so happy!
surprise	tweets	@Sazchik  I read somewhere they were restoring the name, hope it happens soon
joy	tweets	[Wrong!] @anambanana thanx  your THE awesome! http://tinyurl.com/ddqpoa
joy	tweets	School -.- I'm arrange for the design of the blog to a friend! I think it's looks good  http://xoxoeternity.blogg.no/
joy	tweets	@tobinharris brilliant! Best tool of the year
joy	tweets	HAPPY STAR WARS DAY EVERYONE  any excuse for a few drinkies eh?
joy	tweets	waitin for dr dee.... had lunch with my beautiful lady  before that i was on the gym ... ( yeah need to loose 10 more  )
joy	tweets	GoodMorning. My Father's going balistic, and I'd say more but I'd rather not get beat, so Have a Good Day, and please text me
joy	tweets	Off to a wedding!
joy	tweets	Finally started Twittering.... got to keep up... So downgrade from full colour, pictures etc. to simple small sized text messages....
joy	tweets	@j3nn1e ooh good!  im starting with the hardest one, gonna be at it all day. ive locked my door and im only leaving for food and toilet! x
joy	tweets	@monicafrancesca congratulations! woootwoooo!  @ginoboi great game!  nakaka-hyper kayo!
joy	tweets	Oh also today we must remember that it is Hoppusday. So happy Hoppusday  Yes I said it yesterday but it changed okay?
joy	tweets	Another HD - my lecturer was gob smacked by how good our presentation was
joy	tweets	@sweetemmaxxx i love the cheesey ones, and the cool orignal ones  , , , skips i have when my brother has them got to try them u c haha
joy	tweets	weather starting to be better  So just SHINE **
surprise	tweets	@m_mazur Hahaha...and I who actually thought you just were popular!
surprise	tweets	@jeffinator today was my first day
joy	tweets	sitting on chloes little trike thingo its a girraffe  ill most probobly get yelled at with in the next minute or so! ohhh well
joy	tweets	is busy creating a new logo for my  site
joy	tweets	@AmyyVee aww that was a really great blog :] thanks for the mention  hi form the philippines :-h :]
joy	tweets	Another nice day again! Working in Goderich today so I can walk &amp; enjoy the weather
joy	tweets	got alot of runnin around to do today to get this job app completed so they can have it on file... so glad i got this job!!
joy	tweets	@misslazarou Bom apetite
joy	tweets	@tranced1 yes mate, on Friday
surprise	tweets	@stephjacko hey, you know the trailers before hannah montana? is there a jonas brothers 3D concert experience trailer?  x
joy	tweets	ah! A clean house...finally, so nice
joy	tweets	Up and around a little earlier than I wanted to be (phone rang 5:30 AM).  Exercise is a good way to start the day, right?
surprise	tweets	nvm, lexi's playlist is working its magic
joy	tweets	@MattCohenIII it could be worse  so u usually a nite owl?
joy	tweets	Good morning in Twitterville. Off to work I go...Chat @ all of u later
joy	tweets	@MicaR think so but my boss is in Switzerland all week. going when she returns  ira gonna be awesome
joy	tweets	@XLesseyX good and you cup cake
surprise	tweets	@yadatree I used to row in high school and just found out there is a rowing club ten minutes away from me so I thought I should sign up
joy	tweets	@YatPundit oooh OK. thought I was losing my MizMind
surprise	tweets	@lemziipie Wow, congrats Rosemary
joy	tweets	@Pearl57 welcome back. my monday turned out ok. hope yours does too  xox
joy	tweets	yeah! I'm going to Makati Cinema Square with my dad later. haha!
joy	tweets	My wish came true!  see u
joy	tweets	FLOODED OUT OF MY HOUSE  !!! Staying with someone in town unless the water stops rising  i may use it as a homework excuse
joy	tweets	@paulina1 Good Morning and Have a Great Day at work
joy	tweets	:visiting my friendster and facebook
surprise	tweets	@toastehmonstah Ohh! I got the fourth thing just not the may, ahh thanks.
joy	tweets	Brilliant weekend.  BRILLIANT I SAY!    In work now and actually working .
joy	tweets	Ahh saved from mowing the lawn by the rain  Now I have plenty of time to go kayaking. Blessed are the rain gods!!
joy	tweets	home from the beach and only my feet are burned. i am proud of myself and the sunscreen.
joy	tweets	Congratulations to Manny &quot;Pacman&quot; Pacquiao! You've made every Filipino proud of being a Filipino!
joy	tweets	@Marge_Inovera Hi Jakki! Thanks for the hug - right back at ya
joy	tweets	@nurseju I treat my hair so badly. It's revenge for it turning grey prematurely
joy	tweets	Soon we are going to look at a cabaret, it's going to be fun!
joy	tweets	photo session + mother-daughters bonding session = happy me
surprise	tweets	@MissxMarisa haha what can i say, you're a great teacher!! you learned from the best... Hannah Montana
surprise	tweets	Looking forward to a session at the gym
surprise	tweets	@andrewdisley @patrick_h_lauke Sefton Park in Liverpool would be good... and 200m down the road from me
joy	tweets	@sophie_lee lol a bugg to school thats awsome
joy	tweets	Mexican! That's what I'm craving
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you    Happy Star Wars Day !!!
joy	tweets	Some goodies bagged at the car boot including some very cute cross stitch birds for my craft room! The man selling was a sweetie
joy	tweets	@kate38381849 haha it's ok. i really don't like getting to other businesses so its Ok,
joy	tweets	good morning!
joy	tweets	heading off to schoool. going to have a good day. i just knoww...
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jdtx - Springtime is nice
joy	tweets	@marika75 music-habits - I'll join your study
joy	tweets	@AndyTaylorSonic Yey! holiday Monday in Uk today ... have a chilled day
joy	tweets	@emzyjonas My favourite TV show when i was a kid was.. Bananas In Pyjamas and Teletubbies.  lol Luckyy youuuu going to a JB concert! haha.
joy	tweets	@cresh182 have fun ! bbq is good ! no matter where it is
joy	tweets	@chelsea_anstee i hope! its in expo! that would be amazing. im trying so hard to make perfection so it is.
joy	tweets	@vampirefreak101 Haha ^^ Thanks
joy	tweets	Oh, and now Mondays also mean new American Dad!  So glad I watched that show, so funny, and it makes Mondays even better
joy	tweets	@AndyACB yes not for putting inside anything else
surprise	tweets	@phomor someone's horsing about. Btw Hubb feels the same about twitter. He's naming @towerofbabble as the other party
surprise	tweets	Alexia has clogged up twitter...... again.... so I thought I'd post a tweet. Um... Just had a shower!!  Now I will have a drink! Teehee...
joy	tweets	whoa. that was some showering session
joy	tweets	@ninaaacooperrr don't not come in  i love you... and it's your last week and you need to see me..... you're hot
joy	tweets	ready to go home
joy	tweets	@jeffparks naw...I'll keep you in. Turns out you have the odd nugget of wisdom.
joy	tweets	Aparantly it's #starwarsday so enjoy  don't quite know what your Kent to do but be happy anywho!
joy	tweets	is going to finish his last assignment. THEN GO TO BED.
joy	tweets	Went to see Priscilla Ahn last night, was amazin! so were the bands before her actually
joy	tweets	@AirheadUK washing off, comp was great..more people and FAB atmosphere. 1st in dist. and 2nd in exp. sess.
joy	tweets	@ingegoesbroadwa sounds like you're having a great time
surprise	tweets	@tsarnick Yeah, you better be sorry! I can't believe you, kiss my sass!!!
joy	tweets	@jimmymarsh617 awesome job last night!
joy	tweets	Cool music collection, can be used for non-intrusive background music - music from keygens!   http://www.keygenmusic.net
joy	tweets	3oh!3 on the radio  they were amazing yesterday.
joy	tweets	@jrathburn Good mornin' Jason! Ready for a fresh new week as well!
joy	tweets	@Brrridgett I already know what happens on Supernatural.
joy	tweets	finishing up at the studio  NEW SONGS UP ON MYSPACE tomorrow MAY 5th
joy	tweets	the maccabees new album is a winner ,everybody should take a listen fact
joy	tweets	Going to be buckling down this week. So, relief for my twitter followers from my inanity. Enjoy my silence.
joy	tweets	We'll write a song that turns out the lights &lt;3
joy	tweets	Very tired! Dinner good, then churro's were good!
joy	tweets	Off to class .... Longggg day
joy	tweets	feel like going home and sleep till the next day!
joy	tweets	Oh yeah, Radio1 is SO playing Earth, Wind and Fire
joy	tweets	@Stephkerchner heard through the grapevine that we might see you around today. Looking forward to meeting you.
joy	tweets	is online shopping...fantastic
joy	tweets	looking for new ideas for my blog
joy	tweets	@WestEndActress It's well good!!
joy	tweets	@antony Hahahahahahahahahah! That tickled me so much!
joy	tweets	@miraaaaa hahaha. you should eat then!
surprise	tweets	installed ubuntu 9.04 on my office lap! yaaaaaaaaaaaay!   &quot;install under windows&quot; feature rocks!! #awesome #ubuntu #excited
joy	tweets	@Danielle_Jane14 okay well then now i don't feel so bad lmao
joy	tweets	@utterhip U r welcome pal  u truly deserve 2 be followed
joy	tweets	@iaindodsworth Ha, yea you are so not allowed days of rest, way too many interesting ideas to incorporate into tweetdeck
surprise	tweets	@Kaat11 yes I am
surprise	tweets	@RobHolladay I added it, are you still awake?
surprise	tweets	@meriel I know it's not meeeee. Im surprised either  At least I get to laugh at myself UNLIKE SOME OTHER PEOPLE )
surprise	tweets	@fightking Yeah, 'Age of Aquarius' IS a pretty scary song
joy	tweets	@Sunshineliron that was awesome!!
joy	tweets	@duskyazure yeah that sounds more sensible. thought you had a heston bleumenthal moment of genius somehow!
joy	tweets	@grentone If you have specific questions, let me know. Always good to have them when writing stuff. Well, I am off  Have fun!
joy	tweets	may the 4th be with you! HAPPY STAR WARS DAY!
joy	tweets	i'm yours.  hahahaha jason mraz &lt;3 lol
joy	tweets	@lorenanne I look forward to having one very soon
surprise	tweets	@babygirlparis Have a fantastic time in paradise and drink a few Margeritas for me
joy	tweets	@PaperCakes lol, I haven't made anything yet, I've just spread all my supplies out over the dining room table
joy	tweets	Sydney - Toyota - Landcruiser - 1996 - $10,000  - new ad received and will be posted on the HCC site soon
joy	tweets	Yes we Can  make it ......Obama
joy	tweets	Good morning Tweepsland! Makin' it a great Monday! Huge shout out to all my followers .. muah, muah! I appreciate you all
joy	tweets	@santoscarmen that's a lot of mangoes.. haha  baka naglilihi ka ahh?? haha  joke lang carmen
joy	tweets	is almost done with the third/chapter cover page, yay
joy	tweets	had the best weekend
joy	tweets	WANTED: New liver and kidney, glass of wine would be good toooo
joy	tweets	@ccr_harris  There were way more than two! Ten hours of real-ale takes it out of you
joy	tweets	seen loads of new photos and stuff of new moon and cant wait  lol (L) Taylor lautner lol   takes his shirt off 3 times yum =]... lol
joy	tweets	i really should be in a bad mood. but.
joy	tweets	GOOD LUCK ON FINALS EVERYONE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	@aulia &quot;alternate means of acquisition&quot; sounds sorta noble
joy	tweets	@pourpresheep lol. thanks babe!
joy	tweets	gooooood morning
joy	tweets	Hey David! Gone on the Eye yet? It's my birthday, and you singing @ Ipswitch-best present ever! Have fun breakfast hunting!
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 We welcome you, Taylor ) Although it's raining :// Can't wait for your concert  x
joy	tweets	I'm a bit happier now. Found a bit of motivation in Physics. I know I won't do well for the paper but at least I've started revising
joy	tweets	finish some sketches und then go out an skate! Yeeeehaaa! got a new deck
joy	tweets	this goes out to the one n only smirker   cheers dave!  aka jak  aka the best chest ever! ? http://blip.fm/~5jjcc
joy	tweets	I don't believe it, my puppy likes brussels sprouts!
joy	tweets	@trekkerguy Have already had a great day!  Enjoy your Weeties!
joy	tweets	@leannenufc Go for it! Chinese sounds yum!
joy	tweets	im so new!! and i need ur help
surprise	tweets	talking to sam on msn, twitter is so 5 minutes ago
joy	tweets	@HemalRadia Hello pal..nice 2 c u today...have a gr8 week
surprise	tweets	listening to her stolen music. just loved it cause its free!
joy	tweets	skipping school w/ carleigh today, both of us barley got an hr of sleep last nite. i got a new bby kitten! shes all black
joy	tweets	Polly Scattergood's new single out today! Download the Please Don't Touch EP on iTunes, it's ace!
surprise	tweets	@NHBS We don't really offer that service as we're web/graphic designers and not desktop publishers. So, I thought maybe you could help?
joy	tweets	been playing UFC Unleashed 2009 demo, its a impressive game, got the Apprentice on now, Lazy Monday
joy	tweets	@ckjchambers I agree the G B Reef got my vote  #queensland
surprise	tweets	@niveauxbandit heyy are you ok...? i know it sucks having her in you dorm... but i assure you it will be ok
joy	tweets	ah just finished making tea for tomorrow night
surprise	tweets	@marieosmond See you October! Love the new book, when's the next one out?
joy	tweets	@rhyanoutrageous thank you
joy	tweets	@TracyeDukes Good Morning and thanks for the Retweet
joy	tweets	@AlexTrup Thx
joy	tweets	@DickieA YAY!!! I'm glad that I'm not the only one who is about to sign away their soul to Twitter and Facebook!  welcome! xxx
joy	tweets	Morning Twitterland! Countdown to TCI begins again... Will get through Monday to Wed. knowing that I'm outta here on Thursday! Woo hoo!
joy	tweets	I'm still pumped from the concert saturday. 17/7/09 here i come
joy	tweets	@Emily_Morden ..be at richard's. if not then i'll see you when you/we get back  good luck!
joy	tweets	@dayv79 haha I just playing
joy	tweets	@twochix1 I want to see David cook!!
joy	tweets	@NakedSoap @dandineen lol yep sure do... although I must get out the house today !!!
joy	tweets	@AmandaHol Britains got Talent just gets better every week
surprise	tweets	@filogrrl yeaaa i just got the link off his lj
joy	tweets	@rewebcoach So far (with the exception of the rain), my morning is Great.  But I won't let it dampen my day
joy	tweets	@hasinamin I'm the same, don't panic. Big topman
joy	tweets	May the Forth be with you... ha yes... Today is my birthday  Star Wars day... Aren't i lucky you star wars Fans?
surprise	tweets	@jordanmccoy awwww how cute its a pUG
joy	tweets	@joshcoop Absolutely!  When we hit bottom there is only one way to go.
joy	tweets	congratulations penjiiii !!! Are we calling him soulja boy or mcbaby lol
joy	tweets	@backsue rofl rofl. Have fun
joy	tweets	happy star wars day everyone  off to celebrate with the family... ok we're not celebrating it but i am going round to the famo's...
joy	tweets	@annahasphyxiate re sore back and legs: well at least you had a good time. epson salt works good usually.  DM me if need more help
joy	tweets	@bmthofficial  good as, cya in melbourne
joy	tweets	@fayarina shweeeeet!
joy	tweets	Wow, I just realized that this is the last month of my school year!
joy	tweets	@GreeGreece Thanks for the Gifford Lectures page
joy	tweets	I had fun this summer
joy	tweets	@JacobLovie Haha it's not awful at all, but I think everyone hates the sound of their voice when they hear it played back, I know I do!!
joy	tweets	@frixionofficial its a hott tuuneee,
joy	tweets	@mikefoong lol i like challenges  the more impossible the more i want to try!
joy	tweets	? Polly Scattergood's new single out today! Download the Please Don't Touch EP on iTunes, it's ace!  http://tr.im/kpK8
joy	tweets	@1sweetwhirl remember the guy who 1st #tweetbud you! ~&gt; @yashved_2890  help him get 900 flwrs &amp; make him smile!
joy	tweets	@Wossy You know, you can read almost all your Tweets as some sort of disgusting euphamism.  It's quite fun
joy	tweets	Good morning  ready to start this week.
joy	tweets	reviews done, 30 new sentences, 100+ iknow done wow on a role
joy	tweets	i've heard Basment Jaxx's new song &quot;Raindrops&quot;...that's fantastic!!! and makes me dancing  i can't wait Fuji Rock Festival...
joy	tweets	Chillin with the rents, and looking at hilarious old photos. Well funny!
joy	tweets	@mombloggersclub Good morning
joy	tweets	I'm going to school...JOY! :/ 7:20 am! I've got to go!  BYE!
joy	tweets	Come join the fun as I through out the first pitch at the Legends game... May 16th @ 7 pm!   http://tinyurl.com/6nkpuz
joy	tweets	@DickieA @chrisjlovell it's true!  @chrisjlovell have u downloaded the tweetdeck yet? it is literally amazing  xxx
joy	tweets	@HaoranC Go for it!!
joy	tweets	trying to watch lost online very annoying and slow...the internet not lost
joy	tweets	gonna be a longg day but fun - senior walk finally
joy	tweets	@hopefulauthor Thank you!
joy	tweets	@amazondotjon http://twitpic.com/4j9cd - whoaaaaaaaaaaa RYAN!!!! i can see his smile from here
joy	tweets	@Ashika_Sunshine  I figured that... But I ended up taking my cousin to work in the Rain anyway...    But hit me up
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day
joy	tweets	@Nextread I agree, keep it in Star Trek but make it commercially viable! C'mon!
joy	tweets	whew finally got in to RC..
joy	tweets	Is listening to P!nk tunage and trying to teach my cat to dance to it... I think she's getting it we can be backing dancers by next tour
joy	tweets	@yuniphan Yay! Congratulations, oh newly minted graduate. You'll have to let me buy you lunch and iced chocolates (PLURAL) to celebrate!
joy	tweets	@Monica2112 this is 5 hours late, but i never managaed to sleep properly. i think david tweeting me back earlier is the reason. ahaha
joy	tweets	@DaveDuarte I can remember those Evidence Based Management lectures...definitely the best of EBM
joy	tweets	Going to the gym early trying to get back in shape again. My husb got me a gift cert to swim w/ Dolphins for my BD.  Need muscles!
joy	tweets	@clumsyFA yeah! Love my Hawaiian outfit. We reused that for rugby 7 this year with @doublechin
joy	tweets	Guinness got 2 'new' toys from mom and dads house.  Hooray for free stuff
joy	tweets	@macmuso thank you very much, I'm glad you like them!
joy	tweets	@Jonasbrothers That sounds like lots of fun, Nick! lol
joy	tweets	Woo - got a fast mobile broadband connection now
joy	tweets	@dandineen I am UCE, I did my PGCE there   went to Leicester for my main degree though ...
joy	tweets	@DjChino102Jamz  I just got through doing my work now I can take the whole day off, its great being your own boss
joy	tweets	I have been awarded my first ever credit card
joy	tweets	Clive it's my birthday pat me  http://apps.facebook.com/dogbook/profile/view/6386106
joy	tweets	@kailinnicole you're right about the duckies  thanks for being such a big help with wrapping &amp; writing up!
joy	tweets	back from my nice hot shower      i am wishing that brent was my older brother
joy	tweets	happy star wars day
joy	tweets	omg supernatural is on after good news week
joy	tweets	Happy Monday morning!
joy	tweets	@gregjames will you be posting a pic of you H suit?? Pretty please?
joy	tweets	@jason_mraz http://twitpic.com/4iq19 - popcorn crazy dude and still adorable
joy	tweets	@Lurkine Would you travel to the UK for one?  The big US meets sound great, I'd love to go to one of those, so many furs &amp; so much art
joy	tweets	@sammoran BTW, 'nathanfillion' is trying to beat his Flight Control score as well, maybe you should follow each other?
joy	tweets	finally over my sickness.
joy	tweets	Out for a walk in the cornish countryside, on the great British bank hol   http://bit.ly/AILUn  http://yfrog.com/6rwwtj
joy	tweets	@Hooked4Life Sheesh. No crochet? BAH and humbug. And sleep? Um, I suppose I will someday
joy	tweets	nice weather..looks like its going to rain here in # Delhi.
joy	tweets	Last day of high school!
joy	tweets	@treewatcher21 Ah veronica! its a pleasure to meet you  I'm stephen
joy	tweets	@Pink congradts on ur show  Even tho i wasnt there lol
joy	tweets	Heading to the U of Utah hospital. Have a great day everyone
joy	tweets	it was a hard weekend. too much alcohol on these fuckin &quot;weinfest&quot;
surprise	tweets	@BKMS4life thx for following
surprise	tweets	just found out that selena gomez's birthday is 6 days after mine
joy	tweets	@clara018 heyy lol we are talking on david archuleta site as well lol  your funy lol
surprise	tweets	@ismnora strangely enough, yes.  but then it works for me, may not for everyone.
joy	tweets	well, having looked at my bruv's exam timetable and french oral exam I feel very fortunate  now to, erm, digest my morning revision...
joy	tweets	nice weather..looks like its going to rain here in #Delhi.
joy	tweets	@itschristablack I am so stoked on seeing you with the Jonas Brothers
joy	tweets	@HollaAtK Hey  Did you have a good weekend buddy?
joy	tweets	i can be a good girl at school.. today i was!! i did it!! yayy
joy	tweets	Going to bed  Goodnight  xox
joy	tweets	we finally got our graduation gear today, i'm so excited. can you believe it? just 41 days left! aaah  and the sweater is so cozy
joy	tweets	snowbear has finally come out...congrats che and warren
joy	tweets	@Robert_day26 ~ Awwwww have fun with the fam boo boo
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day!
joy	tweets	I love when i have time for starbucks
joy	tweets	@nelpix ... Turned out nice I think   http://twitpic.com/4jeil
joy	tweets	@hadoukenuk http://twitpic.com/4hsd2 - Weheyyyy   We give thanks for MIDI keyboards
surprise	tweets	@nataliet95 bahaha, BOF? you've gotta get a life... although i can't say much with my obsession with miley cyrus.. I'VE gotta get a life
joy	tweets	Yum! Whole box of cookies for me
joy	tweets	shopping tomorrow? I think yes
joy	tweets	Today is going to be a good day!! On my way to work spending time with Jesus
joy	tweets	Reading a book instead of revising. Thinking about lunch. Heart rate is 56 bpm... just in case you wanted to know
joy	tweets	@augusten Ha ha, that's really funny!
joy	tweets	@TerriCook Good Evening Terri! Have missed you lately, hope life is being good to you. Have a wonderful evening !
joy	tweets	@MCRIsAPleasure really?  wooooo! I wish i could go to indonesia! Lol. Hopefully next summer.
joy	tweets	@mumof_3girls LOUISE !! You r not adopted - ballet it is. You'll love it and then the cocktails after even more!
joy	tweets	30 year old Barbie dolls still can rock it...that girl was H-O-T!  and Ken ain't so bad either!  now those are memories!
joy	tweets	Last week of class... Well technically classes are over just have two exams  and summmmmerrrrr begins...yeahhhhhyaaaaaa
joy	tweets	i think i like the workshop
joy	tweets	@shoptilldrop yeah I know what you mean, but the 1st season got me hooked and I HAVE to watch it now in case something BIG happens.
joy	tweets	Very excited about camp, loads of people aren't but I am thrilled about that fact we get to sleep in tents and roll around in mud
joy	tweets	@01theone Looking forward to following your journey on this endeavor - just subscribed to your blog
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 Have a great time in London
joy	tweets	sorry @sanderschenk I misspelled twice already. Im notgiving you up, just have to run  ? http://blip.fm/~5jjxr
joy	tweets	On the bus to NYC   http://yfrog.com/08kaifj
joy	tweets	Good Morning! - Court - Crossfit - Bible Study - Someone very special's house  http://tinyurl.com/cjs668
surprise	tweets	Made my first Skype to landline call.  Good call quality, quite impressed
joy	tweets	@Danacea Happy Star Wars Day!!!
joy	tweets	@martha_s Hope you're getting all your reading done.
joy	tweets	@DrMommy I have got my smile
joy	tweets	Doing make up for the school musical this week aaah
joy	tweets	@CustomCreation - We drank ours away, May Day Bank Holiday today
joy	tweets	In pillow heaven
surprise	tweets	@iLoveWtcc0228 Thought you might be interested in @TweetPhoto http://tweetphoto.com. See who's viewing your photos!
joy	tweets	[Somewhere - Within Temptation] returned to mysefl. Keep working hard till June
joy	tweets	back from the yoga retreat. I recommend this to everyone
joy	tweets	Good Morning Campers! I got LOTS of sleep last night! Thank you! Thank you Ash! Thank You!
joy	tweets	@tessneale i suppose this will be in the blog post, but could u email me who was there too
joy	tweets	@gracepoltrack Why yes I DO!!  ...Or rather, did. Just finished it! Starting Dead Like Me, lollll~
joy	tweets	@turtleclansago thanx for the msg! glad u liked my singing!
joy	tweets	@BeckySmithster  let's hope so
surprise	tweets	@FizzyDuck Would you believe I have put that in my bookmarks ?
joy	tweets	Eating rice for breakfast. Yes.
joy	tweets	Having a good...no great day already &amp; Dr.Miracles feel-it formula really does work!! LOL Hope everyone has a good day as well
joy	tweets	@SmittySmiff dude i read that wrong! Haha well good good. Thanks.  but now I agree.
joy	tweets	@Mossyy Not a problem,  Glad to!
joy	tweets	ah what a lovely day for a bike ride and cake making  *is rooting 4 those who are revising!* do your best! X
joy	tweets	&quot;I don't like Monday, i wish it were sunday, cause that's my fun day.&quot;  that was my freaking jam when i was little.   i miss it.
joy	tweets	@Pink ur shows r amazin  keep it up ! x
joy	tweets	Come on all you lovely fans Number 14 in the Local pop Charts  Let launch an assault on the number 1 slot!!! www,reverbnation.com/suki ...
joy	tweets	@jeffsgrippen yeah it's great!! always something interesting going on
joy	tweets	tiny PhD's will do, because those bigger than me keep taunting me
joy	tweets	life is so good. and it will much greater on Thursday at 5pm!
joy	tweets	@Pink Can't wait to see you on December in Switzerland for a third rendez-vous  Great show ! You are just amazing  ... Enjoy in OZ
joy	tweets	Yea running on 3 hours. Lets do this test
surprise	tweets	Offline.... Have to give private lesson now and eran some money
joy	tweets	@breporter Thanks so much for following! The Muse has much gratitude and wishes you a magnificent &amp; productive start to your day!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jerc view of Atlas Mountains, Morocco across the Straits of Gibraltar, I took the other day from Europa Point, Gib
joy	tweets	@paulawhite yep,  looking forward to it!
joy	tweets	Woohoo..this is the day/week the Lord has made! Just remembered we get to wear jeans &amp; chanclas all week!
joy	tweets	@FutureClassics Ben and Jerry...yummmmy!!!
joy	tweets	@nicolemauricio Aw how come ur up so early? love ur youtube vids btw
joy	tweets	@camillecakes I was nice!! I called you  lmao
joy	tweets	haha May the 4th be with you! Happy Star Wars Day!
joy	tweets	i &lt;3 my new picture! its so pretty with the reflecting sunlight on the leaves!
joy	tweets	@fatbellybella morning erikah, how are u? Here start working about a song on my town, always a challenge
joy	tweets	Its awsome... when you know, that you know, that you know!
joy	tweets	Hey there! It's a glorious morning! Monday's animation mode: ON!
joy	tweets	STRESSED AS HELL (, but still surviving
joy	tweets	I'm eating a flake storm from hungry jacks. or as americans call it, burger king
joy	tweets	@superficialgirl yeah the tomato paste and oil is traditional on a sandwich.. eat it with some olives and maltese cheese  yum!
joy	tweets	@paulbaan Hello Paul, nice to hear someone is listening  Some interesting thoughts from #Kaashoek #Unisys. Patel from Doculabs next !
joy	tweets	home from work  good night with epic dudes and dudettes
surprise	tweets	The &quot;shhh..&quot; stuff is finally all done!
joy	tweets	@AdamCrooklyn good morning broham
joy	tweets	wellllll, I did most of my homework. and i kind of finished with editing. And I'm not as tired this morning as I thought I'd be
joy	tweets	@Sierrasnowboard under a week delivery to OZ, awesome product, awesome prices. The parcel today made my day
joy	tweets	@walkaboutgroup Have fun guys! We're about 55 days behind you
joy	tweets	@joaocalistro mine was good, wet but good
joy	tweets	@SteveHealy - I shall post a notice in town so us Cork ladies know to watch out!! lol  You had fun then?? Sevens were the business !! ;)
joy	tweets	bahaha loving @rachmurrayX  twitter to me last night. DRUNK.  lol
joy	tweets	had an eventful weekend and nice week off, looking forward to a final chill out day
joy	tweets	HAPPY B-DAY SHARON
joy	tweets	@jgm22 Hoping you have some pics to share?- &amp; hoping your Monday am isn't too rough today
surprise	tweets	@jeffsgrippen i used to be!! i've done a few different jobs in yj. currently i'm a court officer
joy	tweets	Woken up finally after a long night out, tea, toast and TV coming up...
joy	tweets	Richelle Mead - Succubus Blues-fabulous read! very entertaining, lots of fun and interesting too!! next please..
joy	tweets	@NatFace Ah - yes - that track is also on the compilation, with Kenny Rogers
joy	tweets	@hot_music_news Thanks
joy	tweets	@decryption That is awesome..
surprise	tweets	woohoo 69th (oh er) place  1/3 of my category behind me... not bad for 1 gear, big wheels, no suspension and no training!!
joy	tweets	@DonoLooLoo i feel like tweeting you for no reason. so um hiiiiii.
joy	tweets	@Andrewgoldstein just pre-ordered your new album 'Off The Deep End'. Been listening to 'Permanent Heart' on repeat since.
joy	tweets	@ the station morning show...then gym.... But this damn paper has me crazy any takers?!? Anna  lmfao
joy	tweets	Getting ready for my first &quot;real&quot; day of work in five months...words of encouragement are welcome
joy	tweets	@Adam__Carter Good film
joy	tweets	@Fluffdoodle Lol, triplet.  Haha I'm so glad that morgan got the bag even if she didn't ride the ride
joy	tweets	ha english portfolio!!! i finally finshed you  annnd you! comm final. youre half done! whoa 6:44am time for sleeps. night
joy	tweets	@youngandfoodish thank you  saw your comment on the chew aerobics, really tickled me
joy	tweets	@Alyssa_Milano Good Morning Alyssa!! Hope u have a great wonderful day today   im happy cuz today is my last day of classes!! Yay!!
joy	tweets	@parisandparadox don't worry  just sleep.
joy	tweets	rather excited about my hospital placement starting on monday. I get to give needles and take blood
joy	tweets	@LiannaKnight: We can't wait to see you!   This week can not go fast enough!
joy	tweets	Sitting at the Audi Joburg fashion week casting. So many lanky people in one place! Almost 100. Lol. Good luck to everyone  xx
joy	tweets	yoga for school, what could be better?
joy	tweets	its my birthday.....happy birthday to me!!!!
joy	tweets	Followed by the great Super Mazembe. One of the favorites around here  ? http://blip.fm/~5jkbp
joy	tweets	Is getting her new double yellow volkswagen beetle.  happy star wars day.
joy	tweets	Just woke up :o mums singing to her new gn'r cd replacement i bought because im a good daughter
joy	tweets	working from home office today and catching up on everything except twitter
joy	tweets	One new follower
joy	tweets	@shortyyyy Aww how cute! You'd love my bathroom  http://twitpic.com/4jez4
joy	tweets	@girltrumpet because its like ten times better than this place xD and its so beautiful and fun  and they have gold coast hot dogs!! xD
joy	tweets	@EvilGayTwin I hope you like your new sat nav
joy	tweets	@bjds Yeah it did, it explained everything
joy	tweets	Gonna get my ticket to Las Vegas today. Gotta check my milage. Can't wait till August
joy	tweets	Good morning everyone i hope you all have a great day  even though  it is Monday keep on smiling
joy	tweets	@tsarnick I'm very passionate about my interests and go above and beyond  I mean, you've followed The Wiggles, right?
joy	tweets	New word of the day: &quot;Whoore lure&quot; yes... A new word for cologne. Thanks Mike Harding
joy	tweets	So I got up, went outside planted a few flowers and watched a lee evans DVD. Who knew bank holidays were so fun
joy	tweets	At school. with everyone before the first classs of the day  18 days.
joy	tweets	I'm off to Costco in a bit to print off more photos for my photobook
joy	tweets	@mbburns That's great news
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day!!!
surprise	tweets	@kevin_puentez sikkkeee!!! I getting bose headphones for $1 today
joy	tweets	getting ready for my first day at my new job
joy	tweets	@NEENZ Bye!! Great meeting you!
joy	tweets	@katherinewhitby gooooooooood im not a complete nut case then
joy	tweets	Radio:ACTIVE never gets old and never will  this is the 4th time i have listened to the cd (its on repeat) today, and still love it! =D
joy	tweets	@TheOlifants  de wereld need more ppl like you! ;)
joy	tweets	@evan Doh, from the 1st response I'm guessing you've seen it already
surprise	tweets	@Sarah_x_ATL u mean jack barakat's?! wow so have u ever gone to his house? Hehe i mean ur ssoo lucky to have the address!
joy	tweets	Back to work!  How you doin?
joy	tweets	'Look at the tadpole'... 'No! ... Look at me!!!' ... Foolish dog  http://yfrog.com/05ixbj
joy	tweets	Its a Bank Holiday!..... If you're happy and you know it CLAP YOUR HANDS!
joy	tweets	@JimHunt That smile - the one in your avatar - is that a permanent condition?
joy	tweets	is going out for dinner... just the two of us... niceeeee
joy	tweets	@stevencohmer - and yes i like the vids
joy	tweets	@Sarahhlouisee thankyou  how is ur night?
surprise	tweets	@lyssaloveless I wish they replied to us. July will be utterly amazing!
joy	tweets	@NewYorkChica I understood you pre-coffee tweet  I'm good
joy	tweets	Good morning Sunshine   Tiime for $chooooL ! lol . BBL`
joy	tweets	Recovering from an Italian cruise in the Mediterenean
joy	tweets	@filce Haha I know, I cant handle the fame!  and thank you!
joy	tweets	Happy monday  up and about going to tavares today. Hope everyone has a blessed day!
joy	tweets	@hannbob http://twitpic.com/4jf46 - hehe cute pose there
surprise	tweets	@tara_louise Lucky me. There are mystery ingredients as well
joy	tweets	@ambermatson MUAHAHAHHAHAHA...   well, maybe they think I'm crazy or something. I haven't scared @williambloody yet though
joy	tweets	@MODOFLY  omg lol!  this is fun, tnx 4 posting this
joy	tweets	@tommcfly But it was worth it  xxx.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jfa8 - my new baby cousin, Olivia. 8 pounds, 19 inches. perfectly adorable.
joy	tweets	@chiacy thats much better than the flu syndrome!
surprise	tweets	@foxykaty haha, its cos one of your 'tweets' was smile smile smile, so i quoted the boys in reply
joy	tweets	I just had a lovely lunch of curried rice and mussels with baby octopus - yum
surprise	tweets	@A12291994 you are lame  go make me breakfast!!
joy	tweets	@josh909 thanks...do you guys have a showroom as well? Wanted to chk them out in the flesh. Quite cool lamps and the wife is impressed
joy	tweets	making some beats
surprise	tweets	Forgot an EC2 machine running for 15 days, and got a $35 bill. Amazon teaches you to get organized for a fair price
surprise	tweets	@creative_home Yes - that would be perfect.  That was supposed to happen, last night, still dry.  Usually happens as I a heading to appt.
joy	tweets	@protoslag - well, look who's tweeting.
surprise	tweets	@killelbunnio  what's the deal.
joy	tweets	is upload video geje di youtube  http://plurk.com/p/rqaoe
joy	tweets	Nvd i was sitting on it
joy	tweets	@MattLewisMusic lol we are going to place called frosties its a soft play centre it knackers them lol, then i get peace for the gym  lol
joy	tweets	@skinnylaminx saw a whole lot of your stuff at Africa Joy Casterbridge Farm, White River in Mpumalanga.was quite thrilled to see ur stuff
joy	tweets	A Don't Stop Believing remix? Sure, why not?  Sacrilege   ? http://blip.fm/~5jkpz
joy	tweets	I hereby announce that I am... employed! Couldn't be happier, Alhamdulillah!
joy	tweets	Oh my Gosh,so close to finishing my song! I can't wait!
joy	tweets	Sleeeeeeeepy.... I'm off... Goodnight twitterverse!
joy	tweets	@SirLP  It's just because it's May the 4th.   May The Force be with you  etc.  You've got to know your Star Wars to really appreciate
joy	tweets	Can't help to look at my Twitter page and drool all over my custom bg: http://twitter.com/galvao
joy	tweets	Nothing like Charley Biggs Chicken @ 7:53AM
joy	tweets	Monday mornings couldn't exist if it weren't for some hot tea.
joy	tweets	@BMartha hello there!
joy	tweets	Happy #juddday everybody!
joy	tweets	Good morning world.
joy	tweets	@apattys ... Yes.  That's what I said.
joy	tweets	first compree over .. completed the exam in 2 hrs instead of the alloted 3
joy	tweets	So finally.. It's raining in Delhi
joy	tweets	@bigeyedfishie it was AMAZING!!! Had the best time  hope you had a good weekend too.
joy	tweets	@shortyyyy It was only $8.00 for the curtain and the two rugs  it makes bathing exciting hahaha!
surprise	tweets	@lauraaaaah A group of people naked  woooh
joy	tweets	excited about CWPM tomorrow.. only one member is going but still , its a good start
joy	tweets	sooo glad im home  floridia was fun!! back in ATL. time to sleep....then back up to work!!! constant grind.
joy	tweets	@RobPattinson_ I hope filming is going well  I'm new to the whole &quot;Twilight phenomenon&quot;, they couldn't have picked a better &quot;vampire&quot;!
joy	tweets	hello thereeeeeee
joy	tweets	Off to bed. Only one more day left at school before i get to go on holidays. Yay!! Finally. I am getting sick of school... LOL!
joy	tweets	@thriftymommy - I enjoyed seeing EVERYONE that presented on Saturday at the Clark Howard event - Especially the 3 pre-clark speakers
joy	tweets	Just got to school. Goin to Cinncinatti Wednesday!
joy	tweets	I'm so pumped for the day!
joy	tweets	@Dojie wouldn't that cost quite a bit, I mean flying pizza from China? Nice fusion idea I may have to experiment
joy	tweets	@ChristineRabel ha ha surprisingly well considering!! Having a good time in the sun up in the mountains
joy	tweets	Good Morning Everyone. !.!. Time for work
joy	tweets	The pushing has started, not long before a new #starwarsday baby is born
joy	tweets	@F1_lou hahah hopefully!  enjoy your day
surprise	tweets	@fredwilson I've heard of disgruntled investors, but calling you a &quot;hoe&quot;? That seems totally out of line
joy	tweets	@babygirlparis hope you have a great weekend,Paris
joy	tweets	@rowansingh Depends where your drinking, what your drinking, and how many mates you have. Joke fails
joy	tweets	Been helping ex-student with Uni assignment via Skype .... gotta love a connected world. Now sudying 'game design'. Even better.
surprise	tweets	@death_by_spork haha I like it anyway, although i miss the spork in the pic... where did it go?
joy	tweets	Good Morning...hoping to throw back some coffee like right now!
joy	tweets	Hoisin duck pizza, salt and pepper pizza and gelato for dinner with Edmund and Jade. Good times!
joy	tweets	@mylestones At least it's big enough my 20 month old won't find it and swallow it before the 3 yo and I track it down!
joy	tweets	Reinstalled Ubuntu on my laptop, this time using ext4; the new filesystem. System boot time, from GRUB to full operability: 30 seconds
joy	tweets	@williamfdevault i've sent a twitter invite to poet friends, i'm hoping they will come poetize, would love 2 see more poets here  #poets
joy	tweets	@JustinBazan Maybe because you got in 4 hours ago from an awesome night? Nah, that can't be it.
joy	tweets	@whatswithinu I'm very much in tune with your words today. Thanks.
joy	tweets	@pleasebemine australia gets may 4th off! enjoy it
surprise	tweets	@plc sorry  you wouldn't believe how much feedback we got on that menu bar icon.  the next version will be a lot more subtle
surprise	tweets	@thurstyturtle HA ha - how much?  Thanks for starting to follow me.
surprise	tweets	@nkangel74 wow, Germany, that would be fun! If I could just meet them, just once, I would be good.
joy	tweets	Hey everybody!  hah this day is cool! just got back from walk with the dog... @klaudialorincz OMGosh! Send me the link again please!
joy	tweets	@JanSimpson good afternoon, hope you have a great week
joy	tweets	@goldenboyluke  be sure to go by my blog today    -  and check out your friends - I bet you have some new ones today!
joy	tweets	@msstacy13 Well, thanks for thinking of me! And if you ever do get the scratch for one, well, I'm right here!
joy	tweets	@MrMarketingMan Thanks for the movie review!
joy	tweets	@AprilAMiller Its 5:30 in the evening, sunset time
joy	tweets	Just checked email and got a follower withb same name as me living in Oz. Welcome on board my alrer ego @changa13
joy	tweets	Our Christian mobile directory is running! Just a month old  Visit http://tiny.cc/caribdir
joy	tweets	Me and the calculator made lots of little algebra babies today
joy	tweets	back from school  daily show was amazing  gonna watch it again later i think xD
joy	tweets	@AlyceMadden why arent u famous already? lol you have a very adoring fan, that fan would do anything for you hehehe, im you no.1 fan
joy	tweets	@joycsc - THANKS ! My motivation is returning at about the rate I'm inputting coffee  !
joy	tweets	@gay_emo_zac and a good morning from france to my zaccie
joy	tweets	EVERYBODY WELCOME @purpletonic!!!  Hello Nicole ;)
joy	tweets	@petecooper Happy anniversary to you and @fluffymuppet! Hoping for many, many more. All the best from all of us
joy	tweets	is off to work ... still &quot;recovering&quot; from an amazing and beautiful weekend. Have I mentioned how incredible my friends are??
joy	tweets	installed the iNav iBlue v2 Theme...gives a fresh feel    http://twitpic.com/4jfg4
surprise	tweets	I know people say that power naps are good for you all the time, but I kinda always miss the alarm
joy	tweets	Funniest desktop ever: http://mobypicture.com/?ee2ij3 this way I can see my collegue.
joy	tweets	@mikedignammusic coool thanks a lot  xxx
joy	tweets	@nessie111 playing man utd.kick off 19:45.champions league 2nd leg.lol
joy	tweets	@Lathams they do indeed  glad to hear everything is good with you. I'm great  life is good
joy	tweets	@lauraduhaime Hello How are you
joy	tweets	Morning all! Have a GREAT DAY! Off to school I go
joy	tweets	Recording an acoustic track! For you sexy kids!
joy	tweets	Sitting in a shadow of the tree in the heart of the city listening to Panic!..waiting for the bus  thanks,wind,for being so pleasant a ...
joy	tweets	@torenheksje Thanks for the Retweet!
joy	tweets	i'm done.haha. HOUSE MD marathon ulet
joy	tweets	@leifreak8 Hi Miss.  Isabelle here. :]
joy	tweets	@dizzybunny. Haha. Rite. Im freeeeeeee. Britneys spears listenin time.
surprise	tweets	god assignments are stressful ! but its finished now lol and im off to bedd
joy	tweets	@kg86 aww.. thanks bro!  glad I got u active on twitter!
joy	tweets	Off to England during the summer holidays this year.... yay!
joy	tweets	It's Raining!
joy	tweets	thankful for the rain for our garden! The kids and I are starting on our gardening lapbook (thanks Heidi  http://www.lapbooklessons.com/
joy	tweets	i bought a Italian horseshoe charm. Dragon! it seems to be very strong
joy	tweets	@katherine_kelly PJ days are the best days
joy	tweets	@BrunnaXO don't be worried! I'm safe and sound!  &lt;3 you!
joy	tweets	Good morning! It's going to be a kick-butt day!
joy	tweets	morning sunshiines
joy	tweets	Off today! No wonder I love Mondays!  Movie theatre....here I come.
joy	tweets	Gonna try to get a couple hours of sleep. Love going to bed at 9 am. Later Twitter
joy	tweets	About 60 again todayy yayy!!!
joy	tweets	@Dayteed cool! Linux?
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day everyone! May the 4th be with you all  xxx
joy	tweets	@MasterSavage everythings fine now
joy	tweets	Good morning, everyone!  Just finished breakfast, and getting ready to see what this wonderful day has in store for me!
joy	tweets	@thereisaseason It's fun to see that glimpse of your life
joy	tweets	@CBmagazine thanks for the reminder. Hope all have a great time
joy	tweets	coffee. gym. studio.  story. of. my. life. these. days.     so grateful.
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 I created my account just to get a chance to chat with you (: I ADMIRE YOU! you're amazing! you inspire me to write  &lt;3
joy	tweets	It was worth it
surprise	tweets	thinks that the limit of 140 letters is really not fair. 300 + would be better
joy	tweets	finally off  now the day starts 2 be nice...maybe with a nice ending ;)
surprise	tweets	i hope that everyone has been having a great week.  let me know if you think im crazy for hating coffee XD.
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie Hope you find a nice and healthy, also cheap, breakfast!
joy	tweets	Reporting form IIT Delhi : Rains just started here..Picking up speed...Providing welcome relief to all hostels!!
joy	tweets	@llauren_ having a very lazy day, playing xbox and drinking tea
joy	tweets	Dear Daniel, good news from Nintendo! They want you as a potential Lotchecktester! Hoffentlich wirds was mit der Stelle
joy	tweets	First Day at the new job! Yeah!
joy	tweets	@ddlovato i wish i was there! but i live in holland ): but i'm going to see you in paris
surprise	tweets	@Nicurnmama Thought you might be interested in @TweetPhoto http://tweetphoto.com. See who's viewing your photos!
joy	tweets	lookin forward to liverpool 2mz
joy	tweets	Happy Monday!  Lots of little things to do today!  Tried to water plants out front very early in jammies! Got caught by two neighbors!!
joy	tweets	Well not JUST making dinner making dinner with WET HAIR!
joy	tweets	@tweeterdiva It's easy.....just turn your keyboard upside down
joy	tweets	Saturday is Partytiiime
joy	tweets	Dinner with Ali tonight celebrating her first day at the new job, will be near Trader Joe's, might just have to stop in
joy	tweets	oh yes! Level 40
joy	tweets	@tommcfly I just read online the article you mentioned..meh.  I am very happy to be stuck on you and the guys--just try and get rid of me
surprise	tweets	finished work @ midday, had kiddie dinner ... now have no get-up &amp; go ... ah well it's bank holiday!   #fb
joy	tweets	starting the video editing of the first spanking movie we did with Mina ... it will be added to the next update
surprise	tweets	@Hyperopia afternoon! u've got a new pic, nice specs
joy	tweets	@catdog03 Do I seem brighter &amp; more colorful?
surprise	tweets	Eating an apple... for once in my life!!! Thought you would like to know
joy	tweets	Good morning  hope u all have a great day
joy	tweets	@marteyo ahahaha okay deal  now i only have to snuff hermione out
joy	tweets	mufasa!!!! warriors or the OCEAN!  hahahahahaha
surprise	tweets	@RickGriffin oh! so this could well be your last post!
joy	tweets	Can't wait 2 hand in work tomorrow then im practically finished for the year  yay!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	@KalvinClein hey! thanks for following  how is it going?
joy	tweets	@Lena_DISTRACTIA Good morning.
joy	tweets	@gorgeousgg yup!! even though its a lil rainy out lol hope ya have a good day
joy	tweets	@rissiapriyahita @zanidia @clarixxxa thanks udah di follow
joy	tweets	@powerseller thanks
joy	tweets	@sengming whoa steady there mate don't fall down
joy	tweets	Thanks so much for following me here too  I will keep you all up to date as much as possible on my makeup line plus all new collections
surprise	tweets	Feeling much better  Doing History Research.
joy	tweets	good morning twiggas and twitches  http://bbltwt.com/sciif getcha motivation on
joy	tweets	@shanellelee OOooOO -- no, I have not! Glad to hear it was incredible, though! I still have it bookmarked to try sometime
joy	tweets	@FakerParis A little tired but gland its bank holiday here so i can have a lie in
joy	tweets	@FatDaddySweets YAY! Busy is good
surprise	tweets	@LCLaurenConrad the new series of the hills was on yesterday in uk , it was amazing! you looked really pretty on your birthday too.
joy	tweets	@Dreaming_awake GOOD MIDDAY.
joy	tweets	picture to burn - taylor swift!    great song!
joy	tweets	@kariannanas hahaha, I was busy, now I see what I replied to you! Yes that is true
joy	tweets	14:14 .. someone is thinking of me  good luck to lynny and her tattoo ;)
joy	tweets	waiting for hubby...wake up!!  had entirely too much fun wit tha seester last night
joy	tweets	Bank holiday in London! woohoo
joy	tweets	Yes... today is Star Wars Day!    May the 4th be with you!
joy	tweets	@Frozen2theSword YAY! Hope your day at work is wonderful, Sis! We have a Bank Holiday in England today so everyone is off work
joy	tweets	,.. oh the Mint Lounge ...AWESOME night
surprise	tweets	@GatorBat44 What you said about aj made no sense,hahaha. What were you talking about? And I loved that picture of you and colin!
joy	tweets	Early monday cramming... yay. Only a few weeks left
joy	tweets	haha moms back today from a weekend away , her first words, ' whys the house so dirty?' i love life ..
joy	tweets	Sitting with sabbeth in first period.  buhahaha we are so cool -sabbeth lmao
joy	tweets	A sweat sweat deal? I thought he was sweet... It starts with pronouns, and then moves onto spelling Trentles..
joy	tweets	@LchangetheworLd No, i dont think its bad. And its very well edited, too.
joy	tweets	afternoon. have the first rehearsal with this (extremely talented) singer-songwriter today. wish me luck
surprise	tweets	I've just bought 2 tickets to see the latest show of Gad Elmaleh. I'm so so happyyyy  http://bit.ly/YGPDd
joy	tweets	Day 8 of the 30 Day Shred and Day 5 of Special K Challenge... I feel fantastic.
joy	tweets	@catephoenix I'm thinking you deserve an award. A big shiny one.
joy	tweets	good evening. enjoying vacation eventhough it is boring.  pray for david cook's brother. rip.
joy	tweets	@wanderinghope hehe, thanks! that had everyone in my class laughing too.
joy	tweets	@c1ndyy Yeah, it's good! If you're not going to use it, give it to me! I want to watch Star Trek
joy	tweets	Missing my husband, but it was nice to wake up in my parents' house. The dogs are ecstatic
joy	tweets	@Grace_Coppinger nope  day off sleep time ha
joy	tweets	@mumphlett  a good girl nevah tells hahahahaha! hope you had a good weekend
joy	tweets	@coleb2 yeah, getting shows can be an interesting process.  the key is following up... at least that's what i've learned so far
joy	tweets	bought my dress yesterday!!  Only 12 more days til Chris is home. So excited! Gavin has his first tooth
joy	tweets	@CharlieCurve Wait - cool AND a sliding door? That's an oxymoron.
joy	tweets	Employee orientation for serco  yayy.. I'm excited/nervous!!!! Wish me luck!
joy	tweets	@Irish1974 Yeah, it's good.  Just startled me.
joy	tweets	@DanielBedingfld is this a new album?? about bloody time too!!
joy	tweets	@Heidihabibi wooooo, interesting! Thanks for the info
joy	tweets	Finally got all 7 overdue books out of the little room and into my now overstuffed back pack!
joy	tweets	@buckhollywood HEY BUCK!!!!  love u loads!! LOVE &quot;WHAT THE BUCK?!&quot;
surprise	tweets	Off to school. Who knows what to expect? Bring on life and all of it's suprises!
joy	tweets	times for lame school, UGH!!! XP Thank God mondays r quick for me
joy	tweets	@Holly2305 LOL Me too. Going out at 12am isn't as easy as it used to be
joy	tweets	alhamdulilah. i got accepted into nafa
joy	tweets	@nsmithmorgan thanks for viewing my portfolio www.wahliao.com  I'll be updating it sometimes, will keep u updated.
joy	tweets	@marcuspowl Hi! Waking up, and not lazy at all. You would be proud of me, 8 am here!!! Btw, nice colour, not burnt.
joy	tweets	@ncteacher77  I appreciate you
joy	tweets	girl talk is awesome
joy	tweets	2 more days before the big conference: Central-Eastern Europe &amp; Caspian Scout Group Meeting... it is almost too long for twitter
joy	tweets	@gulpanag congratulations i am heart hacker not a computer hacker@
joy	tweets	@IngridHolliday good morning
joy	tweets	Goooooodmorning
joy	tweets	It's time for school, y'all !1!! HAPPY STARWARS DAY
joy	tweets	@DougPreston Well now I'm gonna be on a mission to find their music
joy	tweets	@skingirl69 yeah, i'm so excited.
joy	tweets	bye for now people .
joy	tweets	Anyone plan on revolutionizing real estate this week?
joy	tweets	hanging out in myrtle beach as a married man
surprise	tweets	Gotta TeraByte  of space to store movies
joy	tweets	brought some new glass for my camera
joy	tweets	@mcrfash1 cool  what did you get?
joy	tweets	goooooood morning!
joy	tweets	@erlang Pigs catching Swine Flu and Avian Flu, risking the development of Flying Pig Flu? Awesomely funny
joy	tweets	says good evening  http://plurk.com/p/rqh8l
joy	tweets	It's my birthday today  Running the mile tomorrow ughh. But then choir concert
surprise	tweets	That mango shake made ALL the difference.  - http://tweet.sg
surprise	tweets	Spiderwoman! She's an amazing mum, gr8 blogger, gr8 mentor &amp; on top of that climbs walls!  http://digg.com/d1qEua -via @kelvinlls
joy	tweets	@luigiiiiii whatever i know you like it.  HAHAHHAH!
joy	tweets	Birthday girl in the house!! Tweet tweet suckas
joy	tweets	Twittering while my hair dries - just washed it in Macadamia and Orange Shampoo - smells gorgeous
joy	tweets	@wilw &quot;phlegmily green house...&quot; That was clever, but ever sooooooo ...... eeeeewwwwww. [more slow clapping] Get well soon.
joy	tweets	Yay, I won at the @Jumeau Bags #Giveaway from @InstantShift. And those bags are so pretty!! Or maybe I'll have a belt? We'll see!
joy	tweets	Hi CelebXXXVidsYH and AyBygW! Thanks for following
joy	tweets	Artwork for the single is now up  woooot woooot!!!
joy	tweets	@wroe16 ohhhh excellent song..hello my friend!
joy	tweets	@Hyperopia feeling better now that it' breakfast time
joy	tweets	@LorenaHeletea Thanks for the well wishes and hope ur day is also quite successful
joy	tweets	@Zindaret http://www.thinkgeek.com/books/nonfiction/b322/ &lt;-- Get me one of those and maybe next time
joy	tweets	@ShoeGal007 oh okay, cool.
joy	tweets	Off to the banks to get this thing rolling! Hooray for days off!
joy	tweets	omg J.O.N.A.S. is my new fave show &lt;3 one guess as to why hahahha
joy	tweets	@kandeezie would love to see that!
surprise	tweets	@BELLION1988 thought u said twitter was crap bellion?
joy	tweets	will just take a bath
joy	tweets	@thehoosiersuk woop rehearsing songs  Yep, sounds even enough to me
joy	tweets	@julienviet Propellerheads has been on my harddrive for a long while. Just got my music repo back in shape this WE and felt nostalgic
joy	tweets	@quinland  Yeah It Good But dont Click The Red X Because It Shuts It Down But Other Then That Its Good  And When U minimize It , It Goes..
joy	tweets	@keza34 cool, your too good to me you know
joy	tweets	Saw Fiddler with Topol! The girls LOOOOVED it!  Next month... Annie! 7th row! *can't wait* Trip 2 the music store for Fiddler sheet music.
joy	tweets	@avalanchelynn When you're driven to be in the theatre you develop a thick skin.  12 yo's been auditioning since she was 8, gotten 1 part.
joy	tweets	@preetishenoy good weather reminds me..I read your post on Sugar cane juice n other things..This weather calls for some of those things!
joy	tweets	Happy #StarWarsDay. May the 4th be with you!  From everyone @dxs_paintball
joy	tweets	Buenos Dias mundo de Twitter  eating b-fast and watching &quot;sex on fire&quot; video b4 I go to work !
surprise	tweets	trying to work out how to use Twitter!
joy	tweets	@ferretprincess Hey Miss Jane! How are you? How goes the film? Hope all is good with you and your family
surprise	tweets	@meganyeo Rocket surgery hey? HAHA I thought it was rocket SCIENCE? Oh.. is that all.. I knew that I swear. Thank you
surprise	tweets	@AngieGriffin Yes..Come through... Tell a friend to tell a friend to tell a friend
joy	tweets	@MR_Bill2030 And good morning to you too.
joy	tweets	By the way one of my goals this year was to forgive people. you have no idea how much has been lifted off my shoulders. i feel better.
joy	tweets	gonna go 2 bed now, night tweeters  , dont think about me when you sleep ;) hahah nite all
joy	tweets	Glad to be home.  Punched out late today.  I am very tired.  Thank goodness I am off tonight.  Will make sure I do something fun today.
joy	tweets	@theonlysv haha nuu .. soLo qoincideencia .. en seriooO
joy	tweets	not a lonely day after all.
joy	tweets	@Iamlegend01 u don't have school today????
joy	tweets	@kathibelle im sure he will  and if its not today, maybe it will be tomorrow..
joy	tweets	@boldnbright1 Call me when you have time and a good phone  I wanna catch up with you! I love you and miss you.
joy	tweets	@jeanniere everythin's great and dandy! Thanks for asking! How're you?
joy	tweets	at school. Rusty just put Oh It Is Love on my ipod. awh
joy	tweets	@spudcomics wow thanks for saying that man! I'd love to illustrate children's books!
joy	tweets	Good morning Monday...  I feel as though you came to visit too early... But I am happy to see you none the less.
joy	tweets	@bradleyspitzer that's called dedication!
joy	tweets	In bed eating chocolates after 2 super parties, yay  playing with the new camera - could I be an amazing photographer?
joy	tweets	is also very excited for the BLAZIN SQUAD revival!  im rooting for 'em-- their new song http://tinyurl.com/dz7tms
joy	tweets	hm, what to do... a bit of work, a bit of fun ...
joy	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx  HELLOOOO !!!
joy	tweets	@Pink I`m looking forward too see and hear you in Norway!! Live fast!
joy	tweets	After work....Hillcats game!   .25 cent hot dogs haha
surprise	tweets	@bph Yep still a few seats left for PRACC workshop w/ @skydiver &amp; @alexdc http://bit.ly/txpA6  see you there
joy	tweets	its gonna be a beautiful day!
joy	tweets	@sookyeong i agree with you!
surprise	tweets	my pic is back..  out of the blue..
joy	tweets	I love those creditcard-sized memory sticks. And Microsoft keeps sending them to me
joy	tweets	@NadavS Cant wait to do some of those things
joy	tweets	NEW STRIPEY TOP DAY!
joy	tweets	I'm a 100% Reagan con according to this quiz http://quizfarm.com/run.php/QuizRunner
joy	tweets	I'm getting back into @taylorswift13 again
joy	tweets	One final down, two to go!
joy	tweets	@bigbooty85 I agree! &amp;&amp; I like the new pic!
joy	tweets	@BamaBlockhead No.. $16 is a good price considering WHO you are going to see!    Right?
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day everyone! and Enjoy the holiday (UK)
joy	tweets	Today in a Week, I am 18.. yiha
surprise	tweets	@robertfreedland it IS a universal treat!!
joy	tweets	@SarahAMurdoch unless you're gretel killeen apparently. you did look pretty damn good
surprise	tweets	There is a faux gothy chick looking at me, sorry I am not going to camden and I like pop-punk and jimmy eat world
joy	tweets	Had such a great weekend! Glad it's sunny out today
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly Rest then. It's your day off!
joy	tweets	In Paris till friday!!
surprise	tweets	@immuneprotect I was thinking the swine markets are in decline. But since we can't say that anymore...
joy	tweets	Good morning everyone!  Nice to see you today!  Hope you a wonderful and funny day!
joy	tweets	Only a month left of high school! Thank God. I am ready for summer
joy	tweets	Morning &amp; welcome new followers! I tweet business &amp; pleasure so just fair warning
joy	tweets	About to dye my hair and do my nails
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly hahahha but days off are cool when nothings open  its like isolated and haha cool
joy	tweets	@borgintraining I saw it and I liked it  Not bad :]
joy	tweets	@mortensax Will do - promise - thanks
joy	tweets	Back in from LI 2hours ago n still made it to work  yay me
joy	tweets	@dboyd1 Yep. Nothing to worry about.
joy	tweets	@nadiabeckett Ha ha, might be - I've doubled my morning intake already in the last couple of days - now have a HUGE bowlful!
joy	tweets	@charliestyr Hella worth it, even if you don't need the full 32 now.
joy	tweets	@lauraduhaime Im doing great thank you
joy	tweets	waiting on the cue for kenny
joy	tweets	On way to Birmingham.. Sewing in the van. Punk.
joy	tweets	the end is not as far as the start
joy	tweets	listening to some bands recommended to me by Sarrah  i really like the friday night boys &lt;3
joy	tweets	@grahamguy more coffee
joy	tweets	spring pictures today  going to schoooool
joy	tweets	@suareasy http://twitpic.com/4bbcy - aww, sweet !!
joy	tweets	Wow, can't believe Monday is here again already. I hope everyone is well today
joy	tweets	Oficially Back to work, all systems up and running smoothly
joy	tweets	i'm yours - jason mraz....looking for an electric guitar  yay!!!1
joy	tweets	Finish line for Team Alpha 'Allstars'.. Was a great day and good to in the winning company team  http://twitpic.com/4jggm
surprise	tweets	Thanks for the follow my new Twitpeeps!
joy	tweets	@madonnacalling my fav CD
joy	tweets	Drinking tea and eating choc chip cookies. Going to head to sleep soon! Night all
joy	tweets	looking forward to the finale of the RACE next week! Missing my castle girls though... Any and all Race fans welcome to watch chez moi...
joy	tweets	likes patricia's dress
surprise	tweets	Do you click on the link after the post &quot;I can't believe how much sex I'm getting?&quot;....I mean, come on!
joy	tweets	YEHEY SUMMER!!  so exciteeeddd.. balme it on the a-a-a-a-a-alcohol.
joy	tweets	@LovelyLu very nice...i cleared my head
joy	tweets	@EZ_DESIGN allright! Looking forward to it..
joy	tweets	Building the radio studio from which we're going to podcast from. It's for our foundation called the Insight Foundation
joy	tweets	@crafty Hope it went well! Was rooting for you both from the (not so) comfort(able world) of PhD application form-filling-in  xxx
surprise	tweets	@Bptbtrfly surprisingly i am actually not super tired... would like to just lay in bed for a while though
joy	tweets	its gonna be a great week! dallas next weekend!!!
joy	tweets	@twlux_e thanks for following me. Nice to meet you
joy	tweets	My near daily exercise is starting to show results.
joy	tweets	Finally, im back online! I miss my lappy. So many things to follow up. Starting with Ning... Haha.
joy	tweets	@Gustavar Having an awesome day? You should... I expect as much out of you  #awesomeupdater
joy	tweets	@Wossy - Jonathan can  you get Priscilla Ahn or Raphael Saadiq on your show - they were fab on the Jools Holland show
joy	tweets	see I told you  I'm updating my personal site with lots of goodies check them out as they come http://www.dennisgomez.com
surprise	tweets	Goingto the airport soon and then going to meet my wedding photographer!! Can't wait
surprise	tweets	@iyaitssuzanne ohh yeh , but he was on sexy men so its okay
joy	tweets	It's only 10:30 and I am going to BED! Brain can't focus at all.. Need a fresh new start. I pray that God grants me a fresh tomorrow.
joy	tweets	@LemonpiY lol you mite be able to see them on facebook if you have it (and if you add me). Obviously I can't post them on my blog
joy	tweets	Presentation - done! And btw: my teacher is cute as hell
joy	tweets	@kitankhamun Pitty he wasnt arnd 2 huh! I wld have rlly wet myself! Otherwise the wedding was gr8!! Had a gd time &amp; lots of smiley faces!
joy	tweets	@AddictedToJones lol, of course i'm right, i'm ALWAYS right, didn't @ElieBel tell you???
joy	tweets	@LOCALDUDER I appreciate the effort. My skin is much softer than your screen
joy	tweets	@pooopy oooh really haha have they said anything about it yet!? i'll suggest the idea on twitter if you want/havent already
joy	tweets	@MasterSavage  cool, i saw it now in the link thanks
joy	tweets	@sotwitterpated Hi! Yeah I'm fine  Just being a girl Haha! But yeah, I'll be seeing u Thursday! Hehe, I'll tempt @janellebelle with a chai
joy	tweets	Good Morning everyone! Enjoy your day! Thinking of all my tweet friends
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 woah that's cool  just landed in London about 2 and1/2 hours ago.I LOVE the scenery, beautiful ,
joy	tweets	Getting a lot done in the office already. It's good to be here early!
joy	tweets	back to work on a beautiful sunny day
joy	tweets	Good morning tweeps! Monday got here way too soon! Hope you are having a good one, at least as good as it can get for a Monday
joy	tweets	No profile pic or bio, few or no updates, lots of following and no followers! Zap! Pow! Block! Annoying but strangely satisfying!
joy	tweets	@dfelteau then how come I'm not uber successful?  I'm not making the same mistakes, I'm making entirely new ones!
joy	tweets	@jrsmith thanks for the follow
joy	tweets	is now at school! About to take the ECAs, &quot;LAME!&quot; (Steal from Brennan) Good Job LC and you too Brennan!
surprise	tweets	Did you know you can shop for AVON online... Its true.. Check out my site: http://www.youravon.com/krystalmoore   Thanks
joy	tweets	Yay! Made my first sale on RedBubble - that makes me so happy   http://bit.ly/1gURq
joy	tweets	@jomanlk I am trying my best to make my own luck
joy	tweets	finally feel back into swing of things here at work after getting married last week! sigh of relief for no more wedding planning!
surprise	tweets	@dannywood let me guess ... ran a few miles?  Respect dude, I can't do it.  Maybe you should train me
joy	tweets	I just went to Metro Diner for the first time. It was awesome.
joy	tweets	@IamFakeBlood see u Next Saturday With Mr @atrak
joy	tweets	what a great day for a massage! book your appointment today  617-262-2220
joy	tweets	@david_bdml big storm here yesterday and last night. But a bright new day this morning here
joy	tweets	oh yes, happy star wars day.   May the fourth be with you...
joy	tweets	@dannywood lol good morning!  Ran 4 milles &amp; hit the gym?  Have a great day!!!
joy	tweets	@xHayleeey they are finally getting ready i see on msn  ahaha  have fun fun fun
joy	tweets	@tiffanyq swimming and tanning was heaven! i blasted music while tanning and was in my own world.
surprise	tweets	@frumioj  Cheeeessseee! We were in Ireland when the latest W&amp;G aired. In-laws had to put up with my blocking the telly on Christmas Day.
joy	tweets	@inlovewitharmy Hehehe. ) I`m nice
joy	tweets	@robertgould Fun to read, thanks! You Brits make things interesting  Funny they whittled 33 saints days to four,... http://ff.im/-2zgfk
joy	tweets	@tamij Have a good day.  I'm checking out Hugh today. Also, be on lookout for best &quot;cassoulet&quot; recipe you will have ever tasted!
joy	tweets	Headed to drop my lil cuz off at the bus stop! Then its back to the bed to read my book!  relaXin on my day off.
joy	tweets	Sayin' good morning to everybody in the Office . . . Must say &quot;Good Morning to you&quot; too!    Greets from Charlotte, NC, USA.
joy	tweets	Just a reminder to anyone @ultimatepetshow, thepet.net awards for the most pet friendly businesses in the UK are being awarded at 3.15pm
joy	tweets	@UncleRUSH Good morning to you. Hope you have a nice productive day
joy	tweets	Looks like I got a new job
joy	tweets	kid's class is going on field trip today ~ and for once, I was smart enough to not volunteer to help!
joy	tweets	@DH_Photography Good Morning! Hope you have a great day!!
joy	tweets	is enjoying a cup of chicken soup!
joy	tweets	FRIENDS COMING TONIGHT! Hopefully the weather will stay nice
joy	tweets	@lovelybookie_ yaaaay mish is following gab!
surprise	tweets	@piraja dohh! is it old? I had never heard it.. I'm so last year..
joy	tweets	I have to stop writing in Swedish or I'll lose my nice followers. Back on the international track
joy	tweets	@razorbackrandy If I am... so are U, my friend.  HA!  But the thing is... WE make old look GOOD!
joy	tweets	We*d Man On His Way     Yess!!    Time 2 Wake Up 4 Real  lol
surprise	tweets	@MsNikkiPorcher i DO THAT ALL THE TIME.. NO BIGGIE
joy	tweets	@Maggiedeephoto Thankfully that face only shows up for photoshoots
joy	tweets	Good mornin twiggas.
joy	tweets	@aplusk  Please play in my movie
joy	tweets	Spanish... The suckiest class ever. But I'm learning atleast. Te quiero Tiasha!
joy	tweets	@MOOVMNT Hey
joy	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg In Toronto  waiting for YOU!!! 48 days to go!
surprise	tweets	@azkikah the idiom?? doesn't ring a bell eh? hahaha. y'are really thinking of food?! nope. actually in the bathroom. teehee
joy	tweets	@genehiga Congrats on the knottie man!
joy	tweets	gonna get out in the sunshine
joy	tweets	@matthew_west and by music I meant awesome Christian artists.
joy	tweets	@dannywood Good morning Dan! It's my Bday and I plan on getting some exercise too today!!  Love ya!! See you in NYC!!!
joy	tweets	@LusaSousa  i&quot;m awake whats for breakfast lulu shit on a shingle ha ha ha
joy	tweets	@dannywood ran 5 miles, went to the gym &amp; woke up Ur great kids....dependable Danny  hope it has been great already
joy	tweets	is stoked for spring! Amazing wild foods! Nature is abundant~bless up!!!
joy	tweets	@roryok I suppose it has a certain 80's charm. I'd personally hold out for the motorola 8 track phone. I like my phones chunky
joy	tweets	Drink #2: And at 12:45pm when leaving the shops I had a Medium Light Coffee Frappuccino. Nom nom nom
joy	tweets	Starting my morning, with coffee and the Early Show with Harry.  Home improvement...my fav. subject...&quot;dezign&quot;.
joy	tweets	If I smile at you will you follow me please lol
joy	tweets	@elle6503 Woo Hoo.!  I made it to one of your Favorites!  See.... Monday's Rock!!
surprise	tweets	its castiel!!!!  [ the angle ]
surprise	tweets	@jamesonhall happy to help
joy	tweets	@ikostar well, if Twitter was $1 a year, I think it'd be a lot easier to monetize than at $30  Less need for differentiated pay/nopay.
joy	tweets	asks thnx for gritiNg    take caRE Too  God BleSS http://plurk.com/p/rqo76
joy	tweets	Loves the fact that there's only 5 days of school left
joy	tweets	got a rad new t-shirt from my aunt. Made from some cool shiny shiny pink material.
joy	tweets	ok I promise to become interesting if you follow me
joy	tweets	Thinking I'm super excited about this week!
joy	tweets	ordered my new shirt
joy	tweets	@terimoore  Congratulations...keep us posted on how things go!
joy	tweets	@FionaKyle I thought it was pretty funny.
surprise	tweets	@taracasper what are you doing here? I thought you were back at work today!
joy	tweets	yay .. sherbert and chocolate ... very nutritious
joy	tweets	just downloaded the tweet deck....look at my and my saviness
joy	tweets	I'm report is coming along really good, and i haven't even been tweeting that much. I'm so proud of myself
joy	tweets	@madinalake Can't wait to listen to Attics
joy	tweets	Yes!! i has 100 minutes of Sims 2 plus Seasons  ) fun fun expansions
surprise	tweets	says numbers are all good - all that's left is the white blood cell count.  http://plurk.com/p/rqo8q
joy	tweets	My younger sister flies in next week for a two week visit. So blessed to look forward to seeing family members visit.
surprise	tweets	@nb42 how poetic.. great going.. keep them coming
joy	tweets	it appears we found the dog.....as we were posting signs with his picture, someone else was posting &quot;found&quot; signs with his picture....
surprise	tweets	@SheonaHG  lol, sunny and 18 yesterday, Igloo melted, attacked by bushes, recovering today.  How's things in Chocolateland?
joy	tweets	Morning twitts heading home  had a great sleep over w. my bf Tennille!
surprise	tweets	@peaceandcarrots wow, so glad you liked the concert. but i mean, how could you not like the concert.
joy	tweets	@pythonism c is nice, but I wouldn't call it fun
joy	tweets	@joepolitics Last night was awesome! Thanks for all the hard work you put into it! Off to get some coffee now...
joy	tweets	Working on your birthday isn't so bad when you get to work with Ruby on Rails
surprise	tweets	@offbeat87 oh okay. Thank you
joy	tweets	Watching loudQUIETloud documentary about the ever awesome Pixies. Realised Joey Santiago and David Lovering are Twitterers. Fantastic
surprise	tweets	@rochellewiseman http://twitpic.com/4jguu - wow that is pretty  x
joy	tweets	@Paula_Deen   looks like a delicious recipe, will try that tonite
joy	tweets	@nuttychris Greatings from planet shannan, we have laded once again on your lanet &amp; hopefull we come in peace =/ Hmm...Haiaa
joy	tweets	@balmeras Weekend was quiet, just planning new websites. Today, research and choosing hats. Coffee hat sounds good though. Kettle on
joy	tweets	watching supernatural!  how exciting.
joy	tweets	@sugarreddrive thx 4 following  r y a band? What kind of genre that y play? Nice to meet all of y
joy	tweets	Shopping with  beckyyy . Going to starbucks in a minute.
joy	tweets	will maybe have my cell phone soon ! Yeah !
joy	tweets	The sun is shining  Have a great day
joy	tweets	I don't wanna work a 10-hour shift today! I'd rather whisper sweet-nothings into the earpiece of a lady friend's cellphone.
joy	tweets	@cindypon ComicCon? That's cool!
joy	tweets	@featureBlend Thanks for the intro. Great to meet u on twitter
joy	tweets	The mission to Wales to find the worlds greatest welsh cake with @kendalloneill was a success - as none are better than my nan's
joy	tweets	@MichaelSmith22 lol, wen my mum used to take me as a kid, i wud always eat the bread instead! haha.
joy	tweets	aww, You Are The Sunshine Of My Life from Bob and Larry Sing the 70s.  makes me think of @gaballison &lt;3
surprise	tweets	Just got back from Carlton in Greenville.  Benz is getting serviced.  Time to make some money.    I think I'll make some sales calls...
joy	tweets	Yay! Just bought American Dad Volume 4  also seen Australia is out on DVD. Could be a lot cheaper than going...
surprise	tweets	hungover.........still in bed!!!! duvet day 2day me thinks  ooh may start desperate housewives or watch new dvds off richard xx
joy	tweets	Played D&amp;D on the bank holiday - was nice, got many XP  And killed a blob. Actually, two, though the 2nd had tentacles.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jh4l - I picked out a watch !! Yey
joy	tweets	@NeverTooSure i know  its nice haha
joy	tweets	@johnlegend  Thats charmingly funny
joy	tweets	I like taking my dogs with me in the car when I run errands. They are always excited to go anywhere. like this morning to Krogers.
joy	tweets	@soundeffect haha that's awesome!!! Would be cool in a horror movie death scene  Maybe not cool....but amusingly ironic
joy	tweets	@JC_Live That's what I want. More the better. Bound to be a few bad eggs though, but they will soon learn.
surprise	tweets	who wants to transfer some maths knowledge into my head via USB cable?
joy	tweets	@ShutterBugGeek Thank you
surprise	tweets	@sevenspoons I had mint ice-cream for dessert tonight. Love the stuff!
joy	tweets	follow me aswel !!!!!!!! if u have twitter, follow me lool !! www.twitter.com/djarka  koool
surprise	tweets	@MMAGear510 thanks.... just awesome
joy	tweets	just another monday...but there are less then 2 hours to work for today...
joy	tweets	Humous and Dorito's.... Oh yes
joy	tweets	Busy week this week; quick trip to chase some oil and gas in htown and then back to office for fun week with the devel team
joy	tweets	Todays the day Twitterland...house closing begin at 11 and we should get to start moving in @ 3 into the new place.
surprise	tweets	doneeee wheeee hahaaaaaaaa so tired and sleepy  peter u suck not coming to my bday!
joy	tweets	Mondays aren't so bad when they are this sunny  #fb
joy	tweets	@Robert_Sprigge  Keen skydivers take off thousands of times in planes but rarely land in them
joy	tweets	Hahaha @Jordan23Capp yes dey dooo, BOSTON Legal  tha fat old man is funny, tha one that was naked ina pink gown Lol
joy	tweets	Good Morning Twitter Bugsssss 8:48am and my day starts nowwwww
joy	tweets	@bev_estep I am glad you are getting into your twittering
joy	tweets	@TraciKnoppe So far, so good. It's still early, though!
surprise	tweets	damn. me and sophie tweeted a lot yesterday. well, it seems like a lot to me anyway.
joy	tweets	going to take my sociology exam   and back to bed
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you  #starwarsday
joy	tweets	@AMG22 You can find more info on getonu2.com We hope to launch the project this week. Then we'll really need some help to release it!
joy	tweets	@NattyKnits I just KNEW you'd get that!
joy	tweets	wow. someone's proud of me.
joy	tweets	@dannywood guessing... Ran 4 miles &amp; gym? Superman you  oxox
surprise	tweets	Wow the  vicodin must have worked I over slept... Better get updating BJADAY.com or I will not have a job
joy	tweets	@C64Takeaway that is a great remix of it. Double Wow!
joy	tweets	@Chambers_ Hahaaaha
joy	tweets	if you want info on #ecomonday check out http://tinyurl.com/cpv32e &amp; follow @ecomonday . It's like #followfriday but green! (&amp; monday)
joy	tweets	@IncomeDiary Sure, its easier to login every day and make posts as an admin or mod, but ill try
joy	tweets	@3squares i will!!! thanks
joy	tweets	@LeelooDogBlog Thanks for all of the awesome tweets LeeLoo, glad you enjoyed the weekend.
joy	tweets	@Bofu2U Good mornin' to ya!
joy	tweets	@elliottja ha! Apparently I talk with a posh accent according to the ppl I saw in the Shire last+dressed very feminely! Makes you chuckle
joy	tweets	@SongzYuuup http://twitpic.com/4gemf - I can definitely appreciate this. The simple things that make my day...
joy	tweets	@RyanSeacrest Same here - coffee is the lifeline to all things good
joy	tweets	Going to the Star Trek premier tomorrow night, uber stoked. I don't care if I'm a nerd, Star Trek is amazecore!!
joy	tweets	Bon Voyage birthday Brother @ Mccarran! cyah again vegas in july. havent slept yet &amp; class @ 1  .. such a fun weekend
joy	tweets	@margaretcho learn tw-headed boy by nutreal milk hotel
joy	tweets	@Dreamyeyes Yes,i was red like a lobster for days-cuz im too pale- but today finally got a nice color ~~
joy	tweets	@danceashleylove i hope you feel better way soon!
joy	tweets	@ibeatcancrtwice thanks...I even washed behind my furry ears  you look marvelous too
joy	tweets	@emmao414 did you find them? Tell us how they turn out won't you! We're making blueberry pancakes this morning
joy	tweets	philosophy final today! thank you @sportygirlie08 it's 3 days now!!!!
joy	tweets	Hope my roommates having a good morning without TP and soap!
joy	tweets	school. 39 days @nicoleheartsjb!!! so exited. Amazing premier @Jonasbrothers
joy	tweets	call me einstein. got math test results: A-  hell yesss
joy	tweets	@LeviFig Already fixed that actually
joy	tweets	going  back to bed  for a  nap, Im starving !!! tty l
joy	tweets	@sevenspoons I like mine green  Just somehow doesn't taste minty otherwise .. heh heh.
joy	tweets	@David_N_Wilson C'mon, I like the superpower explanation better! LOL
joy	tweets	@ToffeeTFB It *was* a great day.
surprise	tweets	I couldn't have planned a better surprise party for my hubby
joy	tweets	@ginidietrich Weather reports of a week of upper 60s make me happy  Perfect running weather!
surprise	tweets	@Bronzethumb Thank you.
joy	tweets	@missgiggly Good night
surprise	tweets	@cameronfrye Awww, that's amazing though! I've never been to a SoCo or JM concert...but once Zac hanson gave me his drumstick!
joy	tweets	@sln25373 hahaha i was like :O DOUGIE THATS HARSH!!! are you happy he replied?
joy	tweets	@iseric ill buy you one
joy	tweets	Last day of college today!
joy	tweets	on the way to nanny  school starts tomorrow! one step closer to being a teacher!
joy	tweets	@kristyknox Sounds like fun... I think?! LOL! I naughty, should be ironing and watching NK porn on youtube instead! LMAO!
surprise	tweets	Mashup Monday! In honour of the swine flu hysteria  ? http://blip.fm/~5jnv2
joy	tweets	just woke up..busy busy busy 2day...bake bbyshower cupcakes and jays bday cake, bleach hair again &amp; see my boo
joy	tweets	@Nickems that would be great!!!  thanks!!
joy	tweets	@what_tha lol  congrats!
joy	tweets	.. Starting a new week ;) Going to the GYM today ;) Hi to everyone
joy	tweets	i'm glad we did a good job
joy	tweets	Came home early from school to catch up on my lack of sleep. Thanks @thebamboozle
joy	tweets	Clambering about in crashed cars. Hilarious fun
joy	tweets	@DonMcAllister  Now I need to find the Keynote one! At least I know where to go! #ScreenCastsOnline
joy	tweets	@SoulSistaNindy what did someone do? and good morning
joy	tweets	27 Followers  23 More....for Twitter Party!!!!!
joy	tweets	radianborge is learning the ways of being the padre de pamilya   go go go borgie!
joy	tweets	@butterflydi i'll be back on it later today, got plenty of gold, but willing to help you out, if you need anything at all
joy	tweets	Getting ready to to to school
joy	tweets	coffee time
joy	tweets	School... haha well I hope Today is fun. I will post my regular updates during the day. Follow Me and Stay Updated!
joy	tweets	Hey @robluketic &quot;keep clear&quot;   (robluketic live &gt; http://ustre.am/2w5v)
joy	tweets	Looks like the sun is making a comeback in the midwest!!!! Happy Monday to me
surprise	tweets	yeah fffff.at lab coming up with super duper iphone real scratching app  http://fffff.at/spinning-vinyl-ipod-app
joy	tweets	@medscholar08 try #fireflight first... female fronted metal is awesome..  ..  Unbreakable album would be a good start!
joy	tweets	@RX2904 Nice! You should submit that to failblog.org
joy	tweets	@SarahWV hehe indeed it is, I actually nearly changed my bio to just 'Don't Panic' but I wanted to keep in the #freehugs
joy	tweets	@Vacant_Stained http://twitpic.com/4jhe5 - I LOVE it!  that is just so awesome
disgust	tweets	counting the minutes until I can go home
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly   god peppermint mochas frappachinos are amazing...  and addicting
surprise	tweets	@jabula Thanks  Give it 5 stars!!11
joy	tweets	this is my second to last biology and the first time that i have ever been on time. Haha.
joy	tweets	@Madinafire Buying my copy today, so excited! Need to learn it for friday  Good luck in sheffield
joy	tweets	I am so excited Rob Thomas is back!
surprise	tweets	@J_Schools haha funny cause i blame @shiatheninja and @cocotheninja for me not going to bed  its a vicious circle
joy	tweets	@catatonickid @YogaChicky  @shiv379 Shiv, his place, slowly I hope
joy	tweets	@jetpacks YAY! I can't wait to read it.
joy	tweets	@cakelulu He doesn't need the shirt for that Jane...we just had to suffer another two old eps tonight
joy	tweets	@rozarin whaa?  you really should.  2 and 3 are definitely optional, though.  I liked them, but I'm also crazy.
joy	tweets	is exhausted, Bamboozle was amazing
joy	tweets	Liking the Windows 7 Release Candidate so far... (also liking my new video card and terabyte harddisk  )
joy	tweets	@goofygeorge You are totally welcome to come hang out on my wiki  Do it, do it!
joy	tweets	@worshiper_7 Wow that's a big list...lol. I would be happy if I got half of that done. Now I feel lazy...thanks. Just kidding
joy	tweets	@peacePEACEout I totally did go! and he was AMAZING. He's is the reason I bought the tix. He only did 3 songs. But Blood Bank was 1.
disgust	tweets	Stuck on NJ Transit for the past twenty minutes. Great way to start the week
joy	tweets	Beautiful monday morning  so happy  http://myloc.me/tCt
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day everyone
joy	tweets	@abbyhangsi thanks gail  imma try this one day! looks yummy! geezzz. after my siargao trip nlng pla. heheh.
joy	tweets	@michaelmagical haha i think thats a great idea
joy	tweets	Is actually feeling awake today
joy	tweets	@Elise_Smith they are very yummy, i'm eating one too!  BAGELS!
joy	tweets	JONAS is awesome! I just watched Groovy Movies  Frankie,, was weird lol
joy	tweets	&quot;I love knowledge. I love thinkin. Fressshman. Fressshman.&quot; pellericious math song
surprise	tweets	@dougiemcfly want me to walk with you?  x
joy	tweets	@dannywood glad u could check in with us today. keep in touch.
joy	tweets	@PHILIPGRANGER Thanks for the follow! (raises hand) I am
joy	tweets	is going to work an amazing charity event for big brothers big sisters. i don't mind working if its for a good cause
joy	tweets	@macpowell I'M AWAKE, AND HAPPY!
joy	tweets	my sugar-free redbull is on sale at Winn Dixie woo hoo!  I am going to need them this week
joy	tweets	Such a beautiful morning
joy	tweets	Good morning
surprise	tweets	@janine_j9  look at you!!! Chatting with the stars!!! WTG
joy	tweets	Saw Xmen Origins on Sat! By far the BEST Xmen movie! AMAZING!!!
joy	tweets	good morning. have to get ready to go to the hospital and get a cat scan. best wishes to you.
joy	tweets	@djEDGE34 WOw, that's a lot of work.  I hope today is a day off for you.    I'm working as usual.  But, getting some playtime in too.
joy	tweets	@jacqueline47 as long as you're not going to melt LOL. Hubby has an umbrella set up to keep him dry when he grills
joy	tweets	cALL mE wiErD, bUt I jUs LuV rAiNy DaYs! MaKeS mE feeL sO waRm &amp; cOzY iNsIdE  LoL
joy	tweets	@mwahihi Yes. Nag twitter. HAHA  Thanks. LM.
surprise	tweets	@portman65 did you have an amazing time?
joy	tweets	Got 5 new followers yesterday! Yay  Just need 11 more til 50
joy	tweets	Today is check in day for week 12 of the Artist's Way! Hurray time to celebrate another good completed journey.
joy	tweets	Today is Will's first baseball game!  GO BATS!
joy	tweets	@DanielleBean peace &amp; quiet.  Enjoy it while it lasts!
surprise	tweets	Revamping my recording studio today and adding some nice high end outboard gear...very exited!
joy	tweets	Good day all. Let's see what we can get accomplished today together.
joy	tweets	@xeydna sounds good, the one I was too was also fun
joy	tweets	@battle4acure Hey!    Good AM to you too!
surprise	tweets	Kyle is Cody's wee bro!
joy	tweets	Finally upgraded to Spotify premium - exceeded my threshold of awesomeness some time ago. Now where's the iPhone app &amp; remote @spotify?
joy	tweets	Good Monday to all. It's still wet outside but inside I'm sunny  I'm feeling a surge of warmth and energy. This will be a good day!
joy	tweets	@oninobaka you know it's a place with &quot;Action&quot;
surprise	tweets	Morning Tweethearts! Now home after traveling 302 mi.thru 2 states &amp; 2 faires in 3 days. So inspired! Ready to write as I enjoy coffee.
joy	tweets	@vbnavarro Love that song! Happy Monday
joy	tweets	@sabbymcguire aiyo! so poor thing eh you! nevrmine la, the night is still young
joy	tweets	@thomassmith Yo Thomas! thanks for the follow  Social Media Director at Disney? That's awesome! I'd like to learn more! Lets do lunch
joy	tweets	school for a bit. glad jake got the day off
joy	tweets	YAY!  A bright and shiny new week to play with
joy	tweets	@TheFifthSister So happy you came and said hi! Twas very nice to meet you indeed  Thanks so much for coming over and talking to me
joy	tweets	Finally Ubuntu 9.04 arrived as a disc
joy	tweets	@elderwand oh i see   so what are you having today?? hehe
surprise	tweets	OMJ! J.O.N.A.S. is the best tv show EVER!  ?
joy	tweets	what a beautiful day not to got to my first class
joy	tweets	@sweetemmaxxx yeeh. i also have a thing for drummers  basically, all guys have 2 do is play an instrument or sing and im all theirs :p
joy	tweets	were you born in a barn? would you like some hay? 8-)(8) youtube the mother song
joy	tweets	@MikeyConner Hey I bought that Porter Cable 4-piece set.  My new drill has an LED light near the trigger.  Oh I'm so happy.
joy	tweets	Was watching @timminchin downstairs  Now getting ready for bed. Piano in the morning.
joy	tweets	Listening to olivia play!!  lol!
joy	tweets	Starting my internship today, pretty excited!
joy	tweets	Brooklyn!!! We went hard!!! Now back up top!! But 1st Hajji's...yea again  http://tinyurl.com/codla7 http://ti.. http://tinyurl.com/cr8hjs
joy	tweets	@alitherunner good. that was the intent.  hopefully others get the same vibe
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	jb are so cute!  lmfao -giggles-
joy	tweets	Happy #starwarsday
joy	tweets	cooked my own Lunch todayy  Givin' my mum a relaxin' dayy.
joy	tweets	When I check google analytics I can always get to google.com/anal before Safari's auto-fill kicks in. Makes me laugh
joy	tweets	@DHughesy you should so host the next logies, i only laughed at your bit really
joy	tweets	getting ready for summy yummy cocoa crispies
joy	tweets	@DianneMR I like that!
joy	tweets	@Bball4life Florida should be nice.
joy	tweets	@ukrainiac yea, I was just about to say something  It's great to hear! Ukrainian!
joy	tweets	1st place at competition, and superior.
joy	tweets	so most kids love my dark hair some say that I dye it too much and they never know what color its going to be  yea me hahahahaha
joy	tweets	@Snuffel16 gl and say hi for me!
surprise	tweets	@MikeThomson71 meetings are overrated.
joy	tweets	@Its_Claire LOL  I will buy u some big star wars pants 4 Xmas !!!
joy	tweets	At work making more $$.. The only thing that keeps me going is knowing I can SHOP some more once I get paid  I'm becomin a SHOPAHOLIC hehe
joy	tweets	Its raining cats and dogs here, in Mysore! Thankfully, no pigs/swines!
joy	tweets	I'm going to estonia!  woohoo!!
joy	tweets	@dages58 lol after this weekend yea ur right  text me cause im goin to 3rd and they dont have computers there  bye bye
joy	tweets	tea numver 7  (i may start on the coffee in a minute but that has way too much caffene in :S)
surprise	tweets	My last blog http://blog.spiritualsmarts.com/2009/1560/ is being published on Web Digest Weekly next issue!!
joy	tweets	@azmomofmanyhats @rocknrod @gailelaine @sarahstanley  Good morning to you !  Its so pretty outside today
joy	tweets	@HilzFuld haha this tripped me up once when I was talking to Harvard - I read it as an aussie automatically - came off as an idiot
surprise	tweets	@pegkd Good plan, Peg --plus I like the sound of &quot;Money Monday&quot;
joy	tweets	#Happy Stars Wars day....Me's a JA-JA BINKS ha  A crappy day outside though ah well makes me have a bit more motivation to revise
joy	tweets	@mynameismo Good Morning - here's hoping it's a good one for ya!
surprise	tweets	@dirkstanley also: is there a strategic IT plan that maps to the bus strategic needs, that deliver value over time? No more waterfall
joy	tweets	@TiernanDouieb Oh gosh I hope so. How fun!
surprise	tweets	@scottfaithfull You're not singing in the rain?
joy	tweets	Hey @robluketic wow cheers for the insight ppl  looks FUN oh im just stunned..it's AWEOMSE!!!   (robluketic live &gt; http://ustre.am/2w5v)
joy	tweets	@tonyalangford It was pretty cool. The kids *and* the adults had fun.
surprise	tweets	@BeSharp wow, great to know a piece of software ensures our timely project delivery  #ProductNamingRulez
joy	tweets	@BrentO what about aPORKalype Now for the made for TV movie?
joy	tweets	@clemchaz Thank you so much!  Have a fantastic day!
joy	tweets	wats up in your world x) i just won a basketball game  best shooter on the team  idk if shooter existes lol but you understand haha
joy	tweets	@archiedineros Yup I stayed until the very very end  Exciting!
joy	tweets	@batman1952 You know what?  That cowboy hat in your pic made me smile today (you don't see many of those in Japan)
joy	tweets	@OlorinLorien I know, snooker on though. @nicolaherbert and I ate huge fans
joy	tweets	@RizzoTees LOL, point at yourself and laugh!
joy	tweets	@Nawarii22 ur welcome  u finished ur speech (typed it and written notes)
joy	tweets	am chillaxin after a busy BankHoliday, Hope everbody had a gd wkend! Holiday in 12 days!!!  xx
joy	tweets	@frostedfroslass bahaha.... tax folder and phone books, they have such double meanings
joy	tweets	@unodeellos where have you been? LOL
surprise	tweets	@Poynter_sex it was indeed  made my life!
surprise	tweets	@ammaryasir awesome RONIN121
joy	tweets	I want it NOW..  finally found what I wanted ..
joy	tweets	whos going to see reemer on wednesdayy  me and kirsty are going (A) im well exited !!!
joy	tweets	@dannisaywhat LOL kk i've sent u a friend request
joy	tweets	On our way to St. Martin!!! Vacation for a week
joy	tweets	@shanedawson haha yay We love you too Mr. Shane Dawson
disgust	tweets	reeeejuvinated  and bored as hell.
joy	tweets	well being a retired drummer I can do my own drum roll so all you need to do is read my posts since they take a ton of time  lol
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly : dougie, it's coffee. There's no &quot;I&quot; on coffee. Hahaha and your name comes up as predicted text. Pretty awesome
joy	tweets	aaahhh...just woke up! feels good to sleep in on a monday!!!
joy	tweets	@eric_andersen thank you Eric!  glad u appreciate that!
joy	tweets	@JGDemas Hey Muffin, good morning to you! Grt textin wif ya last night
joy	tweets	Make sure u pick up Chrisette Michele's new album EPIPHANY in stores tomorrow May 5th! You will love it! Promise!  Congrats @epiphanygirl
joy	tweets	YAAAAY! I think I might have Aced my history test today!
joy	tweets	eating maccies
joy	tweets	@afiaa_afaya who??  the_handsome_blue_beast?? hhihihuahauu
joy	tweets	The voice of Nemo turns 15 today. Thanks #NPR
joy	tweets	@PushPlayCJ hey  yall were amazing at bamboozle! thanks for stopping to take apicture on saturday.. seemed like you were in a rush though!
joy	tweets	@jerzicua I didn't say I met *all* the awesomest people, just a bunch of them.
joy	tweets	@ inthebattle its really cute. One of my favorites.
joy	tweets	Starting my work week with a little AC Newman
joy	tweets	@mrsgizara  we are at FOrt Belvoir, on base.  Hubs is stationed at the pentagon.  I cant wait for pug pups!!  I just looooove mine!
joy	tweets	@MissEileen hahaha  Really, I'm just trying to figure out the last time he was on FB by looking at all of his friends pages
joy	tweets	What a grey bank holiday. Watching Wallace and Gromit cheered me up
joy	tweets	I hope everyone had a great weekend! I will be here on and off today as I have 2 important meetings today
joy	tweets	finally seventeen
joy	tweets	good morning  tis a rainy Monday morning...blahhh!
joy	tweets	I can has warm chocolate, I is happy now.
joy	tweets	@shayMonkey I'm comin wit u!!
joy	tweets	@GotSoul GREAT song
joy	tweets	is at school. its her last day. of high school. ever. ever. ever.
joy	tweets	@b32 WHEW!  I'm just going to focus on family time and more swim suit shopping for the rest of my vacay! Thanks for the kind words
joy	tweets	Ok, seems I need to remember what account I'm posting as..... That last tweet was a @Geelong_FC tweet!
surprise	tweets	@mystic23 Congrats on the tax refund.  Those are always nice.
joy	tweets	@FoolProofDiva  have a good day!
joy	tweets	I just got my leavers do dress!!!!
joy	tweets	@gerdaduring i know they are delicious.miss germany but like holland as well as we used to shoppin there at weekends.lol
joy	tweets	Last day to sign up for GoCincinnati! www.crossroads.net/gocincinnati you can sign up with my group.. its going to be AWESOME
joy	tweets	@ifyoucdenise kk, awesome.
joy	tweets	@kayenchante thanks   got a hold of someone there who knew their stuff..at last!
joy	tweets	Office til around 6 today. Good day yesterday...I have a BSc now
joy	tweets	thanks for the props
surprise	tweets	@abigvictory OMG that is toooo funny!
joy	tweets	@deversum I've gotta watch out for those stealth skillz! I always forget.
joy	tweets	is rotting away at her desk. Would've been really down and out but thanks to YL, you made my day. You're the best support system - EVER!
joy	tweets	@geerlingguy http://tinyurl.com/dlqo2p is a good one, nice
joy	tweets	@savepolaroid happy polaroid week back at ya! #roidweek yeah
surprise	tweets	Everyone MUST watch this...it's Snowball the dancing bird &amp; he will make your day...I promise!  http://tinyurl.com/37wt5f
joy	tweets	Version 2 of our live, interactive Trans-Siberian ticket planner is launched: http://tinyurl.com/c5ljwm - its very cool
joy	tweets	shouldn't have stayed up til almost 2 reading &quot;rules&quot; but i did. such a good book. totally worth the sleep deprivation.
joy	tweets	My phone works! Its whack. Well good morning. Gonna go eat breakfast with neil before school starts
joy	tweets	m still watchin Boston Legal tho it cracks me up 2, scrubs earlier was good  i guess i just like a laugh!!!
joy	tweets	It's weird waking up in my own bed. Slightly comforting, but i miss the group. But i'm loving using my own pillow again!
joy	tweets	@gabyrosario Thanks for the shoutout
joy	tweets	now that was my first try at any other language on Twitter other than english
joy	tweets	yEssss!!! goT ma TwiN oN LoCK!!!  weLcomE tWiiN
joy	tweets	@gabbyfek yaaaaaay i get to see you too   looking forward to cupcakes and fun.
joy	tweets	@FunderCats Munderday. I like that.
joy	tweets	@impaulgriffiths pauly wallly ! you made my life fucking happy as hell and i love you x3 you should reply back to me
joy	tweets	@jlovely crossing my fingers for ya! &amp; hey you'll be on my side of town!  Welcome! LOL
joy	tweets	Just wants the morning to be over already! In another 5 or 6 hrs. My summer will officially begin  THANK THE JORD!!
joy	tweets	I really want to be a star...Hope Flawless will work
joy	tweets	@THEREALNOM hehe  now im smiling... but u still gotta make it up to me
joy	tweets	@Kelly_StrayCat   haha ty
joy	tweets	Heading off to Hollywood Studios today  Manta and Kraken were both awesome yesterday, feeling like doing a few more rides!!
joy	tweets	getting ready to lay out by the pool....
joy	tweets	is gonna go yoga-ing with a jumbo cup of coffee!!!!! Thinking about it is making her very happy!!
joy	tweets	@zzybug thankfully it's just a really bad sinus infection. they're just watching out for me since i've traveled recently. thanks though
joy	tweets	@robinmeyers Looks like you did the full Lincoln Marathon yesterday? That is awesome, the HM was tough for me
joy	tweets	yay for my very last class of the semester!
joy	tweets	Morning everyone!!!
joy	tweets	Good Morning Sunshines!
joy	tweets	@MsPonita 9 more week! July 8th. Flolloping just perfectly describes the way she moves my belly  hehe
joy	tweets	Good morming my sunshines! Have a beautiful day! Last day of classes for me!
joy	tweets	@kapilb oh optician! how did i not think of that. thanks
joy	tweets	Chick fil a on the morning of my final...that is a must!!  *amj*
joy	tweets	Had a great weekend with John-back to work for 3 days then going to Illinois on Thurs &amp; Fri for more Gigs with John
joy	tweets	@DaLionofjudah Hey, you!! ;) Call me this week!! Gotta go hang out ... could use the de-stress!!
joy	tweets	@easytouch lets go home
joy	tweets	Staying home to work on a linoleum block carving for a project (due tomorrow). There will probably be pictures.
joy	tweets	its raining!! gng for rain dance
surprise	tweets	Excited about having an empty apartment to ourselves for a little while
joy	tweets	@lollipop26 great interview, your videos are my favorite on youtube
joy	tweets	@Raehole @melissahope did you ladies see ghost of girlfriends past? i really liked it! &amp; would totally see it again if  u haven't
joy	tweets	@pricelessrock i'm doing good. i enjoy the rain  i hope you are well too.
surprise	tweets	Rise and shine  Time to get prettifide.
joy	tweets	Good Morning people!!! Have a great day
joy	tweets	@jessejane looks to be a great morning already!
surprise	tweets	@OnThePontyEnd heh coincidence im a barnsley fan too  how'd you track me down :o
joy	tweets	Got told I got a good chance at gettin the job  I am so so excited .omgggg. When I come back I want too...
joy	tweets	Nope didn't get up at 730 930 is nice also
joy	tweets	The rain outside motivates me to sleep.
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you. Happy Star Wars Day!  http://ow.ly/52Aw
joy	tweets	@YatPundit would be funny to see folks leaving jazzfest nola with something like your FollowStats, but &quot;FoodStats&quot;: Gained 17lb, Lost 0
joy	tweets	Hey @robluketic its back!!    (robluketic live &gt; http://ustre.am/2w5v)
joy	tweets	@Teifion Thanks, I'm glad you liked it. It's a flower made of diamonds
surprise	tweets	Nice and clean now
surprise	tweets	wowww!! havent twitter in like FOREVER!! all done with SAT! Finally! soo happy!  i think i did terribly but who cares! ITS DONE! lol
surprise	tweets	@3milk ahhaha. oh, what an embarassment! stop reading them
surprise	tweets	@feedmekicks heyyy you  LOL wassup mamas?
joy	tweets	going to the cinema to see ghost of girlfriends past!
joy	tweets	&quot;I will stumble.. I will fall down... But I will not be moved  &quot;
joy	tweets	@ben_stiller They sure DO. More than 40,000 to boot!
joy	tweets	@darrendoyle Oh I had lots put on my desk during those years  I guess if they've done it to you then it would be ok to do it back lol
joy	tweets	@petethevet Thanks!
joy	tweets	Back from Sweden! It was great, hot and sunshine. Now i am walking around looking red  Back to the writing again!
joy	tweets	@echoinghim it was my pleasure playing guitar for you!  So fun
joy	tweets	@YuraF Nope wasn't kidding at all.  Sometimes I think of you as Forest Gump (during his running years).
joy	tweets	Why kiss the feet of the people who kick you when you can be anything that you want to?  morning everyone! Hope you have the best day ever
joy	tweets	@froggie775 I'll be one of your &quot;groovy guys&quot; any time, shortie short  #photofollows
joy	tweets	@treasaint salad stuff, some chillis, whatever my horti mate gives me really, think it will be fun to do
joy	tweets	is 500 words into a 10 minute speech on 80s teen movies. due wednesday. blah blah. can't wait for the glenn ball!
joy	tweets	@Kitty4Peace how fun!  where is the twitpic! I had purple hair once...
joy	tweets	@shefinds Great job!
joy	tweets	says Finally, Im home.  http://plurk.com/p/rr121
surprise	tweets	2nd result of the day: found my timeout book of bars whiiich means i've now recovered everything I thought i'd lost. Small victories =
joy	tweets	@sortingtrolley sorry missed your post earlier about Edinburgh.  I am biased towards its awesomeness!  Glad you enjoyed your visit
surprise	tweets	Wow. Shabu.  And now HIMYM! Really feels comforting
joy	tweets	@amytropolis wow. sounds heavenly.  we're just doing a quick drive to north carolina. i can't wait
surprise	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day? OHHHH...now I get it. May the 4th be with you.  love it. (and mondays). (sorry again) #starwarsday
joy	tweets	@jspruett have a safe trip joshy poo.......you'll knock them dead at your speech
joy	tweets	@parjoy sounds like the muffler bearings are going bad
joy	tweets	this weekend was a very relaxing one.. i was at my cousin's place and watch a tv series &quot;Tru Calling&quot; really cool
joy	tweets	@ajaimk Also, HAPPY STAR WARS DAY!!!
surprise	tweets	@dravenxiv Oh no! Hope you find your voice soon
surprise	tweets	http://www.myspace.com/dica_grl Just got a crush on this song! Disco's Out! Murder's In! ruleaz?, zic!  www.myspace.com/discosoutmurdersin
joy	tweets	@andysowards andy!! It's great this am. About to wall over to the first day of An Event Apart! So exciiiiiiiting.  How r u mate?
joy	tweets	All dressed now everything
joy	tweets	@Sam_Ho Naw; it was before the 15 mins bug (where tanks would stop spawning after 15 mins)  I'm glad I get to keep it
joy	tweets	@TackStoreLady I'm coming in today to get my other hat and my $5 credit!
joy	tweets	@ash2good99 yay were all saved! Weve overcome god again!
joy	tweets	Watched 'The boy in the striped pj's' the other day too..one of the best films I've ever seen.
joy	tweets	had delicious pav + bhaaji + finely chopped onion + little dash of lemon  Yummy!
joy	tweets	I'm pondering lunch at Shane's. I think. I can already hear people whining about it...
joy	tweets	On my flight headed 2 denver...see yall in a min
joy	tweets	How I Met Your Mother? Best show ever
joy	tweets	@deanomarr That sounds cool! And you're paying - even better
joy	tweets	@lilrainbow89 hi thanks for following me. u doing much? been a long time since i last chatted to u
joy	tweets	I'm glad someone slept with me last night. My doggy  I would take a picture but I don't see my laptop.
joy	tweets	@MsMandyMay Awesome pics! It's a nice way to start the week
joy	tweets	@my3boybarians Laughing at my &quot;ah ha&quot; moment. Off to get some coffee.
joy	tweets	@miss_om &quot;If I should paint my fingernails green- oh and it just so happens I do paint them green...&quot;  Marvelous
joy	tweets	Starbucks I'm lovin' it
joy	tweets	Gettin check outta school cause im siccck. Goin to pick up jimbbbbo.
joy	tweets	I wash my dishes Like a boss!! LOL
joy	tweets	@subtleserpent I'm fine - day off actually so relaxing with laptop. Haven't done a single other thing yet.
joy	tweets	and we have mega sunshine this morning!!!
surprise	tweets	@kduggs1 OMG I just spit my drink out! RIP hair straightener!!
joy	tweets	@auflutterfly Thanks! I registered
joy	tweets	If you are new and in need of a few followers say &quot;TWEET ME&quot; Person with lowest followers will get a shout out!  U have 30mins
joy	tweets	@wendyyoung Damn. She got it on the first try.
joy	tweets	@hotpants79 of course i really hope that this would be his real twitter page! that would be soo cool
joy	tweets	6th street was amazing this weekend!!! The wedding was fantastic.. but im really really tired at work from the long eventful weekend
joy	tweets	the new T-Mobile advert in Trafalger Square looks like a lot of fun  Except if there was a load of pigeons there too.
joy	tweets	I just downloaded a ton of stunning, BEAUTIFUL wallpapers from www.interfacelift.com - go have a look.
joy	tweets	@lilazngangsta have a awesome day at school!!!
joy	tweets	@cwong5 same to you bud. Kudos on your hardcore gym training, it's a great lifechanging experience, keep it up!!!
surprise	tweets	Good morning new followers. Time for my face-sized coffee. Don't be a stranger
joy	tweets	@RyanSeacrest have a god day  xx
joy	tweets	@sea_breez Yer please do! Have a good day!
joy	tweets	never twittered b4 but here i am wondering what to do next...jared?!?!
joy	tweets	@maenad_au my pleasure... hey it was played at my going away from nz party back in 87 lots   so it is burned into my brain
joy	tweets	Went outside and picked flowers with Marina! i love picking flowers haha
joy	tweets	manang is back! had a great dinner!  super busog :O
joy	tweets	@PoisonIvy69 Fine thanks, not long now till Christmas....I'm excited
joy	tweets	Worked out for about an hour.. nothing to hardcore. Sitting in Starbucks waiting to start work
joy	tweets	Really? I can only go in 1Direction at a time?! UGh!  Gotta take authority over the time 2day!  Say hello! Don't be a stranger! BeBlessed!
joy	tweets	@sadknob right now if be happy to win a packet of salt n vinegar crisps  or a new exhaust as mine fell off on the A1 !
joy	tweets	@missyIbee Not a problem at all sis - respect due
joy	tweets	@EllenMalloy thanks for trying   I was hoping Bud Trillin, but the Fest would be honored by any of the guests with whom you hobnobbed.
joy	tweets	lol good times in the journalism back room...everyone else thinks we're weird now
surprise	tweets	Catching up on #dollhouse Yay Alan Tudyk aka Wash is in it.
joy	tweets	got tickets to go with dad and his girlfriend to see Eric Clapton, Steve Winwood, and the Arc Angels on June 24th @ Toyota Center! WOO!
joy	tweets	@stephenfry hong kong is great for crazy &quot;English names&quot;. A friend works with a &quot;miss chewbacca leung&quot;
joy	tweets	@gfalcone601 hmmm toughie! haha you are so alike to tom with all these questions  xx
joy	tweets	@blueskiesxj  i like yours too   i enjoy your photography. =]
joy	tweets	Can't wait to see Set Your Goals at Leeds. Lots of website work to do today and its not on my own
joy	tweets	http://tinyurl.com/c8nlzh - forgot how much I like this song
surprise	tweets	may the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	Por Favor!!! Only need FIVE more!  http://tinyurl.com/dzcpg3
disgust	tweets	@thebirdmachine: About 1pm.  Squeaking?! Hell squeaking?! D:
joy	tweets	@mafeinberg At least you have a large vocabulary -- the benefit of being a writer   Hope you're well, sister.
joy	tweets	@djnvs LoL! there u go..that's the spirit haha
joy	tweets	Ar work bored...hope Tiff gets here soon then the fun can start
joy	tweets	Going to IKEA with the roomie so she can shop for her apartment. IKEA is in like my top ten stores that I love
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jj43 - Me and Ari
surprise	tweets	had a very interesting day yesterday... wondering if today will be just as crazy. Hope not. Still diggin' Spartacus!.. aka: Mike-E!!!
joy	tweets	Watching Ryann!!  Gonna be a grand day!!!
joy	tweets	@Dhanraj1974 good luck with you finals!!!
joy	tweets	I got a raise and praise!!!! Great way to start Monday off
joy	tweets	I promise to post new mini magical village today, the weather is perfect for it   See preview here: http://pengpengsplace.blogspot.com
joy	tweets	@khorshid I hope to see you soon again
joy	tweets	@FransJr ... Lol! Probably a little sweeter in the carribbean! Tropical island sounds wonderful.
joy	tweets	@absolutspacegrl I could feel the excitement in that tweet! ;) I'll be watching the launch on NASA tv! How I love my directv!  seriously.
joy	tweets	[Aeroplanes - We Know, Plato!] One of my favorite WKP songs!  ? http://blip.fm/~5jq91
joy	tweets	Sooo readyyy for the summerr babyyyy!!!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	@twitlonger Hi x Your websites soo cool i love using it  Thank you
joy	tweets	Star Trek in HD.... I'm impressed.... Beam me up Spotty!
joy	tweets	Todays goal: Tweet more @ work  Im off to a good start but havent left the house yet. Welcome new followers! I hope your not too bored yet
joy	tweets	Just jailbroke david's iphone in computer programming.
surprise	tweets	@yourbabyV  I don't like Demi...I like La La Land and Don't forget. Do you like Ashley Tisdale??
joy	tweets	ohay clean teeth
joy	tweets	I need a break! I NEED KITKAT! haha!
joy	tweets	@Wally_v10 grax
joy	tweets	@kristianc count me in
joy	tweets	it's monday. yayy.. need to get my demi lovato tickets before they sell out!
joy	tweets	monday morning . lets whip out some code today
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jj4j - Birthday Breakfast! Yummm- chai &amp; an apple fritter
joy	tweets	Good morning everyone
joy	tweets	@StaceysJustFab blackberry messenger rocks! Its basically IM-ing with other BB users that u add, so like ur friends. Saves on texts
joy	tweets	@Stevebrown87 Noo, good guys are better  x
joy	tweets	Finally picked up some handwraps, but struggling to wrap my stronger hand with the other! Defo should have got some a lot sooner though
joy	tweets	@ponet thats funny.. actually.. i could use a haircut...might be growing it out thru August for Woodstock Anniversary Party....40 yrs
joy	tweets	@markhoppus ahaha its stuck in my head; thanxx
joy	tweets	@elegyofhope haha you didnt see my macbook or my 24'' imac in that pic, so feel extra jealous lolll
joy	tweets	@clyp1976 thanks!! I definitely will! The next season will be rainy and it comes in two month's time!!
joy	tweets	@LarryTill I had recommended Harney &amp; Sons (http://www.harney.com/) from where I order much of my tea, I think.
joy	tweets	@NEENZ I was just at Sky Harbor on Friday.    How are you?
joy	tweets	Feeling pretty good this morning! Lets hope it lasts through the day
joy	tweets	Going to French. Anyone want to pick me up?
joy	tweets	death cab for cutie and slouchy barets  its a good way to start the day.
joy	tweets	listening to dave barnes, getting really excited for junior senior
joy	tweets	@CHRISDJMOYLES Get you lol what time we eating id hate to be late
joy	tweets	It's soupy-soup time. Today: Heinz Cream of Chicken and Mushroom - yum! bbl
joy	tweets	@m_jonas101 WOW they're totally amazing and they're more than awesome
joy	tweets	@shay1988 lol same here....wish there was a way to microsize everything...lol
joy	tweets	@RyanMills1 safe &amp; easy travels Mills. I'll miss u
joy	tweets	Gooood morning!
joy	tweets	@Nicholina6....got your message!!! You are such a twitter freak!
joy	tweets	New project, new mess
surprise	tweets	Got Six Feet Under series 1 on DVD
joy	tweets	A new week = new legend to make.
joy	tweets	Sometimes all it takes to solve our problems is a fresh morning!! Hope today is beautiful for you
joy	tweets	@Rene_Kay2 welcome to Twitter babes! I know what you mean...still trying to figure this out
joy	tweets	@Joy_B I don't know but they aren't worth it, only 6 people actually showed up lol
joy	tweets	@sharonkneadles Best of luck to you
joy	tweets	@JAJMiami  Happy Monday!!  Hope you have a great week!
surprise	tweets	and egg whites, with 7 grain toast. YUP!
surprise	tweets	@Bulehithien Aaaah, the same old same, I see ^^ We share a mutual fate, my friend :*
joy	tweets	is excited to see Samantha&amp;Denise again  http://plurk.com/p/rr5id
joy	tweets	@lopps_1999  ohh, that is so cute, fishing is so peaceful!  your daughter looks so focus in what she is doing
joy	tweets	@mandydean thanks, Mandy!  What a good sister you are. @krikkert That may be true, but unfortunately my road tires can't say the same.
joy	tweets	@sentimentalizzy Yeah, hope so. I'm excited
joy	tweets	I always get really excited when 'Steal My Kisses' by Ben Harper comes on the ipod...great song...love the beat-boxing in the beginning
joy	tweets	@ComedyQueen LOL it's overcast but otherwise ok. I'm tired but otherwise ok
joy	tweets	@coollike http://twitpic.com/4jg09 - haha she looks a little like u charlie lol
joy	tweets	It is certainly spring in Vail, Co.  It is raining and snowing!  Doesn't mother nature know the mountain is closed for the ski season!
joy	tweets	so its been forever since I've tweet, just wanted to say thaty I love bill! and I hope ya'll have an amazing week
joy	tweets	@toddkashdan thanks Todd. Enjoyed reading your blog too - I had a little cheer for good old Alfred Wallace. Curious to read your book
joy	tweets	just joined Twitter...     Hiya world!
joy	tweets	@kazab I like them. I mean I like what's left of them.
joy	tweets	@lulazoid So vacation is good so far?
joy	tweets	is exhausted from a great weekend, and is looking forward to this week
surprise	tweets	Is sick. Staying home because that's what Levy said to do.
joy	tweets	Wolverine was much fun, but Gambit was a bit disappointing.  Neither smooth nor Cajun enough for my taste. Pretty though
joy	tweets	Omg!!! Is this the sun glimpsing through the clouds?! Woohoo!
joy	tweets	@yogadarla @Gypsy_Yogini @Rock_My_Soles @Lotuspad i am sooo jealous  in a good way of course.  LC is awesome.
joy	tweets	@PeterDowley  i've seen inkheart- i liked it too
joy	tweets	@thegirlRiot there's nothing wrong with having a quiet day... it gives you more time to listen
surprise	tweets	@prempanicker Ah, I thought management fiat was your own fiat  Oh well... And... Shripriya (or Shri if one must shorten it).
joy	tweets	Beer, Smoki and Lucky Strike...good times, good times   At work...drawing stuff
surprise	tweets	My #musicmonday offering: http://tinyurl.com/dg9ad5 Tony Christie feat. All Seeing I - Walk Like a Panther
surprise	tweets	@Essyxx Happy May Day and Star Wars Day
joy	tweets	is at the farm doing what i do best...RIDING MY ASS OFF!!!...get at me
surprise	tweets	There's starwars day? ) OMG Rocio!
joy	tweets	I only have one day left in school  My 16th is approaching
joy	tweets	@melindarice same here, as long as i get to watch it somewhere i'm happy
surprise	tweets	@kkanester  No, but apparently a distant relative died in east africa, leaving me as his only heir. Once I send 5K I should have 250k
joy	tweets	Working, Listening to music,Testing out a new singer/guitarist tonight, let's hope for the best
joy	tweets	@THEDIAMONDCOACH  Hey my friend need some inspiration...  no one can do it like you.. @deadplaygroud   Thanks
surprise	tweets	Can I get a &quot;what?&quot;  &quot;what?&quot;...the baby sent some Twitter messages on my behalf
joy	tweets	@HiveMindMovie and Miss Fizzy Duck loves Hive Mind too
joy	tweets	@junelover just email em to the email i gave u thanx awesome person
joy	tweets	workin a long day today... hopefully i can make some good tips
joy	tweets	Taping at Cox then picking up starbucks for the office bc I am so nice
joy	tweets	is excited about Taylor Swift on wednesday!!!
joy	tweets	@lindsayrcg hehe, I can almost hear out of my right ear now  Can you yet?
joy	tweets	feeling so great!
joy	tweets	@dejam88. Well gotdamn girl!!! I dont know what else!!!!  I'm sleepy again! Grrr
joy	tweets	@myfabolouslife here I am!
joy	tweets	@SuzyDaFloozy we dont have the points yet, was talkedabout it though - first ticket I get in my whole driving career up to date, not bad
joy	tweets	OMG! i'm almost done with the last block on this quilt! Just a few hours of work left  i can't wait to meet my goal
joy	tweets	@thedustball main event has not happened yet, but he is doing well so far
joy	tweets	@techn0crat .. IN SWEATERS
joy	tweets	Monday, Monday. Mr. Cade is home on the couch &amp; I have lots to do today!
joy	tweets	'k, going to curl up and watch random mind-numbing DVD in hopes that rest will cure runny nose. Night folks
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day ! May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	Time for school  i'm feelin good.. 5 AM jogs do good. ~aloha
joy	tweets	@misterdevans   Well....hopefully someday soon you can get one!
joy	tweets	back to school! feels like its gonna be a great day
joy	tweets	I went to the World Education fair today. It was a whole different kind of circus.
joy	tweets	@JesssEv me too dawg  thanks so much!
joy	tweets	@gfalcone601 you should come to Estonia, I know some epic horses here, hehe, and a good trainer and good beaches were to ride!
joy	tweets	YO I'm just on the computer
joy	tweets	@sandsP Thanks for the FollowFriday suggestion!
joy	tweets	Watching 1st Potter film with kids and eating their sweets  Grotty bank hol weather in Hoylake. Typical !
joy	tweets	@__emilyy you guys are the bomb haha
joy	tweets	@EliteAffairs This was funny! I have 7.
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie oh! La Roux is a band right?? An English electropop synth duo band ..  cool!
joy	tweets	@cubedweller What are we doin!!?? Tell me! tell me!
joy	tweets	@Jerrica_Perez That's great! I hope I'll study with my bff too and we'll live together. well..we will see
joy	tweets	@extremejohn @FLallday @hursty810 Caladesi was definitely a nice peaceful way to spend a Sunday! I got a lil tan!
joy	tweets	Don't follow your dreams; chase them.- Richard Dumb (who I think is very smart
joy	tweets	@MrDDG classes. n bout to make sum breakfast..
surprise	tweets	excited about this week! trying to have a productive monday. trying. hard.
joy	tweets	@RPauline8913 don't you just love the &quot;butteflies in your stomach&quot; feeling?  ano man yun, kaya mo yan.
joy	tweets	@pchaganti concur with http://tr.im/kmVl, but people can't wait. Don't stop making VAS. When clouds become a commodity, do &quot;cross-cloud&quot;
surprise	tweets	We drove  summahkayy
surprise	tweets	Wait - No Wind in Hair - that would be I-L-L-E-G-A-L!!  I would Never break the law!! No, never.
joy	tweets	@MonroeOnABudget thanks for the link love yesterday by the way
joy	tweets	@0xcafebabe I haven't heard anything negative yet. As a former manager used to tell me: If they're quiet, be happy
joy	tweets	@Nessepes if you register now, you'll be able to buy in pre-presale next year. Saturday's gonna be mayhem on internet, wake up early girl
surprise	tweets	@KimPossible40 If you're living under a bridge you need GOATS! If it gets bad come up &amp; stay w/me-we'll fit you in.
joy	tweets	awake  slept in a little cuz no construction. now studying bio alllll day but i dont mind.
joy	tweets	@ceot Thanks! I have a Teflon liver (Being Scottish, I was raised on whisky)
joy	tweets	i just successfully defeated the swine flue with the power of positive thinking!  #Swineflu #H1N1 #Swine Flu
joy	tweets	17 again was funny
joy	tweets	@marieskizo Amazing! The concert, the city, everything. It was really an awesome trip
joy	tweets	@RealHughJackman You were absolutely amazing in the Wolverine  you're sooo beautiful !! you're also such an amazing person, i look up to u
joy	tweets	@VengeanceChrist hey girl i just sent ya a message on Myspace
surprise	tweets	two months from today till I'm Mrs. Josiah!! ahhhH!
joy	tweets	@eeUS I sure hope so!
joy	tweets	today will be productive: gym now....lots and lots of writing later
joy	tweets	Sent Twitterville 1.2 off to Apple for review  More screenshots etc will be released later this week.
joy	tweets	@jay2busy I do now LOL.
joy	tweets	@Ian_Stokoe I bet! I can imagine how much work it is making a movie. I can't wait to see it
joy	tweets	Heather is awake now
joy	tweets	@leinadani haha i just realised it sounded a lot like stellllaaa lol. anyhoo i got ur facebook msg and will start working soon hopefully
joy	tweets	@CoachCharrise its funny, I didn't even know it was there!
joy	tweets	@davechapman A new baby? How exciting  Congrats in advance
joy	tweets	@mcflyyerr yess, they came to amsterdam on the 18th of april  best night everr! have you?
joy	tweets	Six Flags this weekend? Sounds right!
joy	tweets	Received our first bit of spam from Twitter - not sure how to feel that the &quot;sanctity&quot; of our conversation has been tainted.
joy	tweets	getting ready for the dayyyyyyyyyyyy. i hope work goes good!
joy	tweets	@amcmoore Have fun, hon! Ooh, look what a poet I am.
joy	tweets	so I slept in a little...well a lot. whooops
joy	tweets	Morning...tired should i excercise or jus relax need to catch up on sleep..Ladies would you like to see Shemar Moore @ Embassy? Hit me up
joy	tweets	Is off today and gonna go shopping!! T-minus 22 days til CUUUBA!!
joy	tweets	This is going to be a great and productive week - I can just feel it!!!  POSITIVE THINKING is the key
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars day!!  unbelievable
joy	tweets	HAPPY JUDDDAY
joy	tweets	Ten min. on what I'm doing to stimulate biz.  18% off sale, good customer service, awards, Breast cancer camp., koozies, product variety
joy	tweets	@adland thanks for a nice blog post! @peterrosdahl should however be given some creds since he has done at least half of the work on it
joy	tweets	@barroca serio barroca?? parabens!!!!!!! May the 4th be with you!
surprise	tweets	@cameronstrang that's because of all the stuff that was stolen while you were gone...
joy	tweets	Ive chosen Grease
joy	tweets	@chiacy  Thanks
joy	tweets	Gettin ready to hit up the mall w/my mom &amp; Jayden!  DO ALL THINGS W/FAITH!!!!
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie Shoping till you drop david..haha..enjoy your day
joy	tweets	@svickn G'morning! Good to know you're alive and well today!
joy	tweets	@udupendra I'll keep that in mind when he gets tonked for 40 off his 4 overs.
joy	tweets	@peacesignpamFOD that David -- nice to know he feels so comfortable &quot;twitting&quot; or &quot;tweeting&quot; us.   I have a feeling he misses home.
joy	tweets	@RyMartinez Good morning, baby  Yes, i slept like a rock. Refreshed &amp; ready for anything. How are you? *hugs you &amp; doesn't let go* Miss u
joy	tweets	Thank you all for proving my point
joy	tweets	3 years in 2 months!! hooorah! can't wait!
joy	tweets	looking forward to body works today
joy	tweets	May the 4th be with you  I couldn't resist!!
joy	tweets	uploading all my bamboozle pictures of facebook
surprise	tweets	hi  godd day eweryone im in a reel good mood to day
joy	tweets	omg 44 tweets till 8k  and only about 90 tweets difference btween b and comedyqueen
joy	tweets	morning all   will be at Warner soon! lots to do, then go to school for some work... hope everyone has a great day!!!
joy	tweets	Getting ready for school...hope today is a happy and awesome day
joy	tweets	Going to Houston and Nola this weekend with @jill5455. Who wants to join us?
joy	tweets	@evanmcbroom I'm sure Mayor Brainard will be thrilled to hear that you're a fan.
joy	tweets	@boydhilton Thank you so much for the Retweet  x
joy	tweets	Liam peed in the potty!!
joy	tweets	rosales is cool
joy	tweets	He is so silly.  http://twitpic.com/4jk6b
joy	tweets	Little girls and their shallowness annoy me. On the good side i didnt straighten my hair at all today and it looks some what decent
joy	tweets	@solangeknowles I'm going to the show in Amsterdam!  Can't wait!
joy	tweets	Little one's cast is taking a beating. It is starting to show some wear and tear and it has been on less than a week. She is too active!
joy	tweets	Skipping school like all the cool kids do
joy	tweets	Having so much fun! Haley is super-cute on the beach, she LOVES it! Millions of pics to come, of course.
joy	tweets	home.Going to be a warm day on top of it. Is it Friday yet?
joy	tweets	@JBCP Separate desks, computers, and sides of the room with short dividers...but, we're thinking we need them to extend to the ceiling
joy	tweets	dance gavin dance/attack attack/a skylit drive tonight!  i'm so exciteddddd
joy	tweets	@jermtech @bradconner I do the same thing to anybody covering dave... haha... we don't like people messing with perfect music.
joy	tweets	@Arizona_Abby Thank you. I will check that out
joy	tweets	@Cpopulus happy birthday corey!!
joy	tweets	@lucascruikshank http://twitpic.com/4i2zu - wow, thats so cool!
joy	tweets	lmao...ummmm nothing...
joy	tweets	@psuedonym Alternatively you could spend the afternoon reading &quot;Pride and Prejudice and Zombies&quot;
joy	tweets	@Xlex Glad you are happy!
joy	tweets	@peckhar shld says.. great phone
surprise	tweets	Ok, I'm awake. I'm awake. I think.
joy	tweets	Through to quaterfinals of charity football tournament. My penalty save sent us through
joy	tweets	allo! twitterville! how is everyone doing this morning...hope everyone had a great weekend mine was pretty good! its monday (blah) !!!!
joy	tweets	Had lunch. Watching holes on bbc1.
joy	tweets	@storrao Thank you  respects to our designer @luismvaz
joy	tweets	at workyy, trying to get on point with all that I have to do  smile!! &lt;3Lin-Man tonight!!
joy	tweets	Hey Tweeps...good morning. Wussup America...Talk to me tell wut's on ur mind..
joy	tweets	bored. cold. tired. lethargic feeling. Man! great holiday monday!
surprise	tweets	Somehow my alarm became an hour fast and I came to realize it as I was leaving the house.. It feels good having an early start
joy	tweets	done with the photo album  as im a good person so i make it quite private for now. pity you ben haha
joy	tweets	@shawn3k Whoo hoo Chuck! Although it is gloomy out, today is a much better day!
joy	tweets	Hey @robluketic Bye Bye  was fun too   (robluketic live &gt; http://ustre.am/2w5v)
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jkea - @edstetzer now has 10,000 followers! Congrats!
joy	tweets	@annabranch You just let me know how that goes.
joy	tweets	@hotpants79 In two months i will have something of the kinf of prom  and i'm really excited! and you haven't any contact to her?
joy	tweets	@Sweetnote Smooches to you as well, have a great day!
joy	tweets	@DarenYeow Oh wow they are really good  I think Im going to use one of them lol.
joy	tweets	@lilers at least after this you'll be done!!
joy	tweets	@Danielindra actually,we r going there in june with my office colleagues,paid by company
joy	tweets	It's the start of a new week with tons of new photos to take and edit  Yay!!
joy	tweets	@mmurray Hearing that my songs brighten someone's day always makes ME grin.
joy	tweets	@tommcfly yeahhh! u've got plenty of great fans!! And in Spain too! u should come and play a gig here!!
joy	tweets	@CrystalRain Glad to hear you're okay. Could have really hurt, by the sounds of it. Is the couch okay? lol
joy	tweets	despite rain, having a fantastic day
joy	tweets	@petewentz wow, i can sleep with my eyes open, tis amaze *i lie*
joy	tweets	@daveredfly great thanks  looking for a client, maybe I can use this myself, gonna try it
joy	tweets	@Isapersefone D Well, if you got that DVD then you should get those books too!
joy	tweets	@Marvel - Does the 1st show count? That would be the midnight show Thurs night/Fri morning
joy	tweets	I don't have the fake fascination like i once did before. Cause i no longer have to pretend i like you
joy	tweets	@jerrynovak Thanks, hope you have a good one
joy	tweets	@gfalcone601 def cheese and onion  however after being back in the states for 4 months, finding a bag of salt&amp;vinegar...they tasted GREAT!
joy	tweets	Going to workout + swin... fun
joy	tweets	im going to bed  nighttt nighttt xxo ily's
joy	tweets	Had a Great weekend!! and is in such a good mood, she doesn't even mind being at work this morning!
joy	tweets	@chrisfullman I would never do such a thing!  The only thing more awesomerer is the 15 minute walk to work
joy	tweets	@ScaperSuse  hey!, which song was that? I would like to listen to it
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie haha that's because you also look amazing in it! have fun!
joy	tweets	@daniamiwa Were you at the parade yesterday at Powderhorn? Guessing Ava and Bella were similarly mesmerized by the whimsical fairyness
joy	tweets	c'mon people, today is #juddday
joy	tweets	Rest earlier is good for your health. So, I say good nite to you all!
joy	tweets	@dannywood lemme guess - you ran 5 miles at the gym, and are waking your kids up, and then going to the beach and / or recording studio?
joy	tweets	@himynameisryan let me know how it goes babe  good luck!
joy	tweets	@spitphyre arre seriously! They shud take his sperm nd clone him into 23 yr old single guys
joy	tweets	Just had the best shower ever  Still completely deaf in one ear but kinda getting used to it now!! Gonna watch 'the women' now!
joy	tweets	@serinurshira lol ! You take David lah ! I want Danny  not tom !
joy	tweets	@boardopboy Picture or it never happened.
joy	tweets	Happy Monday, Twishers!!  Passing the coffee...
joy	tweets	Discovered @AlliWorthington and @whoisTodd are sharing on G reader with me and didn't even know it. Sigh.... I'm such a G reader newb.
surprise	tweets	oh yea mspacers my boy just hooked up my page  it looks kewl at least i think so and it only took him 5 minutes www.myspace.com/missmickey
joy	tweets	@DutchReaganite Then I'll need plenty of quizzes to get through the work day.
joy	tweets	putting 3 new consultants to work this week. it's a good feeling!  congrats on your offers
joy	tweets	waiting for amy so me, her and @reecerentboy can go see the hannah montanna movie!!!
joy	tweets	@zoelovesarchie @zoelovesarchie it was just true  and you do cause me to having dirty thoughts lol well also some other dude, huh? ;) xoxo
joy	tweets	happy! did crepe, again!
joy	tweets	Getting some DMs asking where I fell off to the past few days  I was sick, but am all better now. I appreciate the concern! Game On!
surprise	tweets	@milkhub Thats smack in the middle of exams, I'll mention it to some of the guys though
joy	tweets	@MissDeeeee Then you might enjoy this one too  http://tinyurl.com/ygcp3f
joy	tweets	@CursedJezzy Thanks for the mascara input. It's appreciated.
joy	tweets	Oh yeah the camera clipping problems with Void are now completely fixed  yay me for fiddling about
surprise	tweets	@lejjewellery oh nice going!
surprise	tweets	updating my twittermoms page; it's quite different from regular twitter
joy	tweets	hmm i dont know what to do today....cause im done with school...and it feel great
joy	tweets	Lets get rich and give everyone nice sweaters and teach them how to dance...
joy	tweets	Morning workout sesh.  Love Life.
surprise	tweets	had a heart to heart with his boy (ALL good stuff, promise!) and is now a bit more smitten than before.  fucking loves!! (Avi=hawt!)
joy	tweets	@Raderr but yeah i like purple maybe thats why!! ;)  :p :d
joy	tweets	Happy morning Sunshine  It's May 4! I'm driving with the windows down and singing and smiling and not wearing shoes because i'm Kirsten!
joy	tweets	@lilmoxey Yay for full-term!!
joy	tweets	Has finally mastered the art to uploading a photo on said Twitter. You can no longer assume I'm a heffer
joy	tweets	@ThrivingIvory the next single is &quot;Hey Lady&quot;.ok, where is my million dollars??
joy	tweets	@davidgs Rest is important, but like everything else don't over do it.
joy	tweets	@ArielSatriani what did you do?haha. just wash your feet and go to bed,mommas boy
joy	tweets	back from driving and now back to bed
surprise	tweets	@twistedthursday She does!
joy	tweets	@laermer yep - three things: a good haircut, the ability to listen and the value of not taking yourself too seriously
joy	tweets	Sleeping sounds too good, goodnight my babies, cuddlez for everyone
joy	tweets	Back at it, but had a GREAT weekend as a buffer
joy	tweets	@maroon5princess I used to love you lol...so awesome...I knew you'd have an &quot;experience&quot; last night
surprise	tweets	@raihanamcfly LOL! salivary gland?? frm those little flies?? no way!  alison=drama queen  oh no, ur brain hurts? a new brain is growing!
joy	tweets	@LukePersonified Yay.  I knew you'd like them if I shut up about them
joy	tweets	@sassyotaku enjoy NOLA definitely one of my favorite cities in the world. Please have a beignet with chocolate for me
joy	tweets	@lilxklein i see you hannah klein!. lookin good today
joy	tweets	@RWAneesa have a safe flight...
joy	tweets	@CourvidLove4Eva  FC is back dear.
joy	tweets	@Mofette briliant! May the fourth be with you  #starwarsday #starwars
disgust	tweets	@LostinSweden too bad I don't drink  But Kentucky is cool tho.All my friends lived in Cincy and I was driving across existance every wknd.
joy	tweets	added 30 minutes to morning sleep by cutting out useless Today Show. Feels nice
joy	tweets	Yayz! Today's is the day I call and see if I got that job! x3 I ish so happy... even though I slept horribly... So I'm kinda drained...
surprise	tweets	Off from work now!
joy	tweets	Good morning ! Wishing everyone a great week
joy	tweets	@PatriciaP1977 thanks for the follow
joy	tweets	@IntriguingDs ... same to you!
joy	tweets	@dg4G ha! nice.    that's about all the german you're gonna get from me.  after that, it's just counting and jibberish.
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day to you all
joy	tweets	had a thrilling time with DAS joyride roadtrip! nice driving Pai and Paulo.  http://plurk.com/p/rrg18
joy	tweets	@AndreasHale yeah !!
surprise	tweets	@jesaryan I'm right there with you girl
joy	tweets	Beautiful morning here in the mountains
joy	tweets	Cute dress!  Hyped  http://lookbook.nu/look/134071
joy	tweets	I am parked in FS yet no ticket.
surprise	tweets	Goooooooood Mornin Tweeps! It's going to be an Awesome Monday - I can already tell... not even 8am and my inbox is clean
surprise	tweets	@tristanx We want pictures as proof though
joy	tweets	Goodmorning
joy	tweets	@snappingturtle @Jonin60seconds requested the date - and he is the guest of honour after all...
joy	tweets	@LittleFletcher oh yeah...haven't seem that in ages!! got to watch that soon!! thanks for reminding me!!
joy	tweets	@atomicfern just made my day: http://tinyurl.com/cumqmv
joy	tweets	subway  im going to get subway....  love it! ate it often when i was in new zealand....
joy	tweets	from last Montday's award ceremony  http://twitpic.com/4jkvl
joy	tweets	@Principled I'm grateful that my kids also don't like them, lol.  Textbooks are a tool, not the sole means of education
joy	tweets	@stellarbeam Dunno yet, would LOVE to though! I keep missing them any other time for some reason :S &amp; have fun!
surprise	tweets	$67 for my books, no complaints. 67 more than i had plus i'm on book voucher!
joy	tweets	pilot to co-pilot baby we burnin' up   /i cannot stress how much this line works.
joy	tweets	@latinavanessa I'm sooo ready for a beautifyl day
joy	tweets	@gamerbabe360 I'm feeling a little sleepy now. Been reading Gunter Grass... wonderful but tiny print. Eyes done in
joy	tweets	@Agent_M Thanks for remembering
surprise	tweets	And now for some CoD4.
joy	tweets	I'm Kinda sleepy.. I Was up too late texting a nice boy making date plans for next weekend..
joy	tweets	@MizFitOnline I agree. I danced with my dad to &quot;Kind &amp; Generous&quot; at my wedding. HUGE fan.
joy	tweets	@alissawoolery you go girl!!!
joy	tweets	Back from AOT last lec.. Alot of question marks on my head.. But thank God for all the tips.. Should be able to pull tru
joy	tweets	@amandamiller Thanks! We're almost there
joy	tweets	@ChaosSmurf Yes! You do!
joy	tweets	@llittizzio I'm in a good mood... See?  I'm smiling!!!!!
joy	tweets	@ROBsessedBlog At least he's in breakthrough performance tho. I just wanted him nominated in his own category
joy	tweets	Time to get educated  Hope you all are off for a great start on this Monday morning
joy	tweets	@MrPointyHead Lol at the VATS on The Insiders
joy	tweets	@FragDolls ok I just love it when big buff tattoed (preferably Christian)  men strut...fluffy dogs are optional
joy	tweets	@erwin57 Peek-a-boo!! i can see you!!
joy	tweets	@ileanedover HEYHEYHEYY happy star wars day   watcha doin this friday? up for a movie?
joy	tweets	@EmilyYoung09 havin fun? x btw isnt it bowling? x  xx
joy	tweets	happy star wars dayyyy =D and hbd to uncle LEE
joy	tweets	@horsekisser He's an amazing jockey! Saw that Clydesdale commercial too..loved it!
joy	tweets	good morning tweeties! what to do today? I am all rested up from Richmond and ready to hit the beach!
joy	tweets	@merlehenge the lost cost is a total plus.  Nutella is like peanut butter mixed with chocolatey goodness. yumm. ^^
joy	tweets	All new implementation of test discovery for unittest. This time in a loader. Good start I think.   http://twurl.nl/nz8f4y
joy	tweets	ooooo I am playing around with my book'smovie trailer (whn I'm not writing of course) &amp; it looks GOOOOOOOOOOD!  I need a release date
joy	tweets	@jtchan83 Woo Hoo! It's time to play &quot;Name That Twune&quot;
joy	tweets	@susiecheng We all need that simple reminder-thx!
joy	tweets	@marimcfly morning!!!! happy #juddday
joy	tweets	i'm excited about cake class 3 tonight   i'm a nerd
joy	tweets	Back to reality tomorrow. But I think I will dig me out a cigar and smoke me a good one. Yes i bought 3 boxes of the &quot;GOOD&quot; Ones
joy	tweets	@spumante hahaha! Yes, I do
joy	tweets	@k_griffiths There was a good atmos. I decided to stay til closing, very funny!
joy	tweets	@Doctor_Death Well I'm impressed with your technical skillz
joy	tweets	@Jaceyjaden whoa!! hahaha! wee going there in a bit! just watching Hugh Jackman's interview at Oprah.
joy	tweets	16 days until I start moving!
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 i wish you could come to Swindon...2 hours away...its my dream to meet you  xoxo
joy	tweets	@reaching4amomnt it'll be close, but hopefully they can figure it out  they'll be eating nothing but those cookies for the week tho.
joy	tweets	@CaroleCross Thank you for that!  I know it.
joy	tweets	@DesiznTech thanks  glad you like it
joy	tweets	@KatieKrafka oh you crazy kids and your stress. try effed / not effed; followed by acceptance. works wonders for the rest of the world
joy	tweets	@dolliesierra Awwh....well at least you are up top, where the magic happens!  Today will be a good day, no worries.
joy	tweets	@rOcketsBABY great thanks hun, i did thr family thing this wknd too! 5 weeks today we hit the USA, cant wait!!
joy	tweets	@cutegingerbread i do but is just a haul vid/photo slideshow only. I only do it for fun  http://www.youtube.com/eyezaddiction
joy	tweets	I lke wearing kiddies clothes. Makes me breasticles look all big n stuff
joy	tweets	In Whin Park on the swings, victory is all mine right now
joy	tweets	School. School. School.  today seems like it's going to be a great day!
surprise	tweets	Last day for MACYS friends &amp; family sale! Going shopping after we meet w/our mortgage broker.
joy	tweets	ready with learnin today!!! .. and now its twilight time
joy	tweets	@allysont haha. the pic wrong. haha. now the one is then correct.
surprise	tweets	@hyperren Good Luck with your interview!
joy	tweets	@dmhome Well, in LA is decent weather. Tell me what's happening in the future
joy	tweets	@PITCHERPARK i want her more on Survivor!!
surprise	tweets	@espowari really? awesome! we love it...and I work at buckhead church too. I love it all around.
joy	tweets	Man, Monday sucks. What I wouldn't give to be a rich beach bum, diving in a tropical lagoon every day, eating fresh fruit and fish...ahhh
joy	tweets	Good Morning Tweeters... Happy Monday!  Grab a big cup of coffee it's a new week
disgust	tweets	Good Morning twitters!!! I am soooo tired...I really need 2 stay off of twitter...LOL this shit is taking over my life...LOL
joy	tweets	@electricbluebrd Aw thank you. I suppose it's a good thing since it means more tweeting.
joy	tweets	@Perpetual_Kid May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	@jkarney  #amtarot Thank you so much!
joy	tweets	@MrsVaught happy birthday, amber! hope it's a great one...and - you're far away from thirty...shhh...you're making us 29'ers feel sad!
joy	tweets	@mcflyyerr yeah that's trueee  i can't wait till the tour dvd comes out, that tour was so epic (: and the backstage material is hilarious
joy	tweets	@RainbowSuicide SHOW ME SHOW ME!!!
joy	tweets	@prisca_eyedea I love last.fm but find it a lot easier (and more content) on spotify  add me on http://last.fm/user/an0key if you like
surprise	tweets	@nic0pic0 You're welcome. There!  I added you already!
joy	tweets	On an operations conference call with the great peeps @campusadvantage team. Y'all make Mondays a bit easier to handle.
joy	tweets	@Utopia_of_Chas good mornin sunshine...at least the work puter will go faster
joy	tweets	one of my favorite, most relaxing songs to wake up to: http://tinyurl.com/c8fr3e Good morning.
joy	tweets	@Brawny2004 true true, I'm writing atm, trying 2 b coherent about the last 4 yrs&amp;string narratives through it but my meats rotting nicely
joy	tweets	Listening to Miley Cyrus Breakout CD ! love it!
joy	tweets	@SedzOz no actually it gets rid of the bacteria and they thaw out nicely
joy	tweets	Morning peeps... If you need to get at me you know where I am... I'll be around  ? http://blip.fm/~5jtyh
joy	tweets	Just checking in to say Good Monday Morning to all my #mamo friends....
joy	tweets	@emmaemelie haha thanx.. now, twitter is a lot more public at YBC than i presumed
joy	tweets	just got home from the gym..tennis first then badminton.ehehe!
joy	tweets	working my ass off and I am completely happy
joy	tweets	@LarryWalksFast Cool. That'd be fantastic!
joy	tweets	@artistico The John Lennon poster. My inner fan girl is dancing with joy.
joy	tweets	@ BeardBurk: Their being optimistic
joy	tweets	YES!! REPRIEVE!! One paper pushed back until Friday! That leaves just three more pages due by 4:00pm... not even a problem.
joy	tweets	booziest weekend in a long time, good fun though!
surprise	tweets	being new to Twitter?!?!?
joy	tweets	@apmckeown it sure is  Hope you're having a great morning
joy	tweets	167 SQL queries to display one single deal page on OzBargain. Looks like I'll have fun optimising it!  Bad bad Drupal...
joy	tweets	@mirnygirly If it doesn't work out drop me a line. I would love to talk with you more about this
joy	tweets	Hey, thanks for the follow, wow this is exciting a new tweet.
joy	tweets	MORNING EVERY1! Giveaway at http://tinyurl.com/dhc4hg  Mod Kid Emma pattern &amp;$25 GiftCert to HipFabric!! GO check it out
joy	tweets	@nickdaigle too short as usual...  but was awesome
surprise	tweets	just realized i have 30 followers HEY GUYS
joy	tweets	has almost completed the groundwork for Paper Pile.
joy	tweets	@LilzCREATiONS thanx for showin luv
joy	tweets	@gloria_hayden Welcome to Twitter!!
joy	tweets	cute girl is finished with timing That Fool 1~ editing stage and waiting for spot translation.
surprise	tweets	I right here...don't worry
surprise	tweets	today got her POP! t-shirt &amp; lovess ittt  haha x
surprise	tweets	Ahhh, 7 am meetings  thanks Reimer!
joy	tweets	@clockworkmelt LOL I feel like drunk right now...
joy	tweets	found rollo! and got happy  hmmm.. guess i really do need to be inserted back into the matrix 0_o
joy	tweets	Getting ready to launch the podcast of chapter 1 of &quot;Turning Left at Albuquerque&quot; this morning. I know you're excited - so am I!
joy	tweets	@fotogypc What kind of help do you need with Machine embroidery?  I may bea able to help
joy	tweets	Hitting the (fairly empty) shops in Orlando! Off to downtown Disney later  http://tinyurl.com/cdsuws
joy	tweets	Right all strapped in and ready to go   http://twitpic.com/4jloj
joy	tweets	Even though it is already Monday. Thanks for the #followfriday complements - you know who you are!
joy	tweets	Back from mountains
joy	tweets	Paid bills. We get water and electricity for another month  Woot.
joy	tweets	@jensen_ackles New to Twitter. New to Supernatural - im only 1 day old :0) Jst ordered 1st season, after seein 1 gud random ep lastnte
joy	tweets	there.  She says it gives her an excuse to sleep in the other bed! LOL  They're different sizes or I would have switched them for her.
joy	tweets	Just had some 100 calorie Shortbread cookies and a handful of popcorn for breakfast. Think that that will give me some energy
joy	tweets	@north385com Well I'm obsessed w/all of them - but I watched the first one again last night  glorious! where can i get a wand?
joy	tweets	what a great day
joy	tweets	out of office on business....needed the get away
joy	tweets	@LoveLauriexox - my son plays pitcher and catcher.  Beautiful weather this past weekend for baseball, but I am exhausted!
joy	tweets	@scottrmcgrew *dancing pirouette ballerina HUGS*  Morning my Awesome brudder!
joy	tweets	FGinished Doinn Fake Tann Sitting Drinknig Coke And Watching Ink Heart
joy	tweets	@mikebrinkman Actually, the post shows they know what happens when you overflow...
joy	tweets	@apizzle86: thanks!  and you being #80 just made my morning!
surprise	tweets	@killakim NEW FRIEND?? hmmm... tell me more
joy	tweets	@VisitGalena - we wouldn't miss it for the world!  ICCVB meetings @VisitPeoria Mon-Wed....  the fun is just beginning
joy	tweets	@ZaraGreen no problem, keep it comin
disgust	tweets	I'm SUPER tired and probably could sleep ALL day BUT I work 12:30 to 9:30 today in Tool Rental... Oh the Joy!!
surprise	tweets	@DarkPiano I have my iTunes playing and one of ur songs just came on
joy	tweets	About to Lock In on getting better  staying +
joy	tweets	@missrogue wow! that is an *awesome* review; carry it with you everywhere; laminate it; read it when down;just plain cool
joy	tweets	why me? i am about to read another ecology book for two hours. its all good fun today
joy	tweets	Awh, thank you for your nice replies! Its so different, its scary so you've made me feel better!!
joy	tweets	@halfwelshdragon those cakes sure look good ,,took one if it's ok with you  ummm good tks
joy	tweets	@pinkladyjen that's a shame, next time hon  yeah tea on thursday would be delightful thanks bestest sis in law x
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday Mommy
joy	tweets	@ssherrill115 Thanks! We're still all passing around germs here but we're surviving.  Have I missed anything?
joy	tweets	@crazyfirebolt HAHA I LOVE THE WAY U PUT IT &quot;He lifts our feet off the ground spins us around and makes us crazier&quot;
joy	tweets	@tractorqueen Will do
joy	tweets	....dont act like your not impressed
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day - May the 4th be with you
joy	tweets	Bed def beat out gym this morning  .....still snuggling w Spike.
joy	tweets	@MsCityCouture chillin wassup ma?? ayo in cali my day just started idk where u r but u have a gud day YA diggg
joy	tweets	@robluketic  Thank you so much. That was so nice of you and I was happy to hear you voice  You've really started something Good!! xo
joy	tweets	Ah, that was easy  I just received the new link for the Reegie rig
joy	tweets	Just wrote up tomorrow's #DWorlds show. @DesigningWorlds followers get a feed soon: mine see it first  http://bit.ly/6jLaL
joy	tweets	hey peoples, dont you just hate being grounded haha, im just sat eating an apple and watching death note (some anime)
joy	tweets	@hcolephotos YOU'RE A BIG DAMN DEAL!!!!!!!  Have fun
joy	tweets	@spazzyyarn he totally got you! ;) i think it's awesome.
joy	tweets	@infovestment LOL, very true. I've been keeping an eye out for that - they arent very tech savvy so I've been alright thus far
joy	tweets	@acousticalt I'll be listening!
joy	tweets	At school 8am to 7pm, then keone chonie's class  have a good day!
joy	tweets	@TheRealKeeks Not Pretty But one hell of a show  non the less
joy	tweets	Happy nurses week! It's our first one as rn's
joy	tweets	Moving today!!  I'm so excited!
surprise	tweets	@Sarahbelle1414 yeah those are better ads  It makes them look part of your content rather than blatant adverts ;)
joy	tweets	back to athens. ????? ? ??????
joy	tweets	@AlGov lmao I'm glad I'm not the only one
joy	tweets	proud of the ceviche and bellinis turning out so well and LOVING the smell of fresh flowers in the house
joy	tweets	@sabrina215 YES!! cant wait. hope these vip passes help since people already campin out hahah
joy	tweets	@zipvojames Well......minus being related to Greg...lol.....just kidding
joy	tweets	@chetbuchanan SANJAYA FOREVER! HAHAHAHAHAHA!!!!
surprise	tweets	@eddwriter call me when your done with your finals and tell me how you did  YOU CAN DO IT!!!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	@joyousnfree lol. No new diet plan...ran late for wrk so didn't hav a chance to make lunch. I ate a lot when I got hm!
joy	tweets	@thedrawingroom hilarious. so if she acts up, all you have to do is say 1 little word...&quot;gummed up&quot; grosses me out; hub says it 2 torment
surprise	tweets	@jmbuckingham Really?? I feel special
joy	tweets	Um... happy star wars day btw. Cheers to all you scruffy looking nerfherders and hot ami's out there.
joy	tweets	I've brush my teeth but im eating Chocolates right now ha-ha just sharing
joy	tweets	my last full week of school!
joy	tweets	out shopping....
joy	tweets	@SoldierBeetle Your welcome hun!    They are all amazing people - make sure to say hello to them!
joy	tweets	No Evidence, No Conviction ! Absolutely hilarious.. Makes my day every time  http://bit.ly/lrolJ
joy	tweets	@cocosbutter its already good...I got to meet you!
joy	tweets	yeah  just made twitter
joy	tweets	@peebles95 call me later so i can tell you all about the weekend. Easier over phone.
joy	tweets	@HeavyBank That's the good part about it. YOU DON'T HAVE TO KNOW ANYONE!
joy	tweets	Good Afternoon
joy	tweets	@imjustcreative having a F**Kin' great day over there Graham isn't it
joy	tweets	shake shake shake shake shake it
joy	tweets	@ru5tyloxx  You're silly.
joy	tweets	The seat was a nice place to go
joy	tweets	haiszt.. im here in the office doing nothing but tweet haha! fun!
joy	tweets	@allicandy95 testing.... Hey! I gotta add you as someone to follow
joy	tweets	@czarinas78 Ah  So you've seen both. (Either way, you get to experience the fantasy of sound and shock waves in the vacuum of space. Heh.)
joy	tweets	I cant WAIT to be home and snuggle with my puppies! and my Fiance
joy	tweets	I am so happy. Keve is here for early Mother's day. Let's be quiet. He drove all night and is sleeping.
joy	tweets	@shrinkingjes WHOO HOO. Congrats on getting under 200lbs
joy	tweets	Okay so yesterday was good went food shopping, cooked some chicken tacos and bakes some cookies!!!  Now I am back at work.
surprise	tweets	wow...i have to many bookmarks...i just spent a good hour organizing
joy	tweets	@meghanian I think I got it fixed! Woo hoo!
joy	tweets	@VIVIatTheDisco Good luck on your first day !!!!
joy	tweets	Just finished first workout on Jillian Michaels 30day making the cut program!  Feeling great  Hopefully the eating will be just as good
joy	tweets	@dopenhagen are you in KL? I am  up for a drink?
joy	tweets	@AsunUnique  Apple has done some impressive things for my almost 2 year old macbook. Except when I poured coffee into the keyboard.
joy	tweets	my c key is stating to work.  yayness.
joy	tweets	@MorrisonCorner i don't have any excuse other than night shifts! we got our orphan lambs from a local farmer so we cheated
surprise	tweets	@hesselbom Ok, which album to start with? After listening to Frank Black for years I found out he used to play in #Pixies.
surprise	tweets	@egeriis it is the lightest, cleanest, most precise and as far as i know fastest engine around
surprise	tweets	@mistygirlph Thanks!  Yes, this sudden downpour does seem rather freakish. Is it really the end of summer here in the Philippines?
joy	tweets	Just picked up my copies of the printed brochures I did for the BWRC. So excited
joy	tweets	all pugged in and ready to go. device updates on, so feel free to bombard me at any time.  Time to actually get something done.
joy	tweets	Im fine also..up way to early..lol...soo those r all ur dogs? to kut3 ..i def want a pit! lol
surprise	tweets	@geekjames It's amazing the DVDs I'll put on my Netflix list just based on the trash potential inherent in their titles
joy	tweets	Waking up .....working....Happy as can be!  Its gonna be a great day today... I can see it..and im not sore from Running yesterday!!!
joy	tweets	listening to the online radio; oldies
joy	tweets	@RitasItalianIce Cherry Italian Ice is my fave. I want to get the local Ritas on Twitter so they'll send out the daily flavors.
joy	tweets	Wool, time for the top cote
joy	tweets	says livejournal is being a bee-eye-tee-see-hedge. Dum dee dum, ok back to work!
surprise	tweets	@goatfox yes i have read them many times.
joy	tweets	Apparently today is Happy Star Wars day.  I'm suppose to say may the 4th be with you.
joy	tweets	@richa_august84 haha...  may be.. hehe.. I might have been imported.  but i love the heat... love playing football on a hot day....
joy	tweets	TextMate crashed for the first time in 3 months. Not too bad actually  #textmate
joy	tweets	@wossy http://twitpic.com/4jjdx - Soak your had in hot water (but not boiling) for about 30mins - it'll pull them right out
joy	tweets	@stylenoirgossip such a great idea!
surprise	tweets	@ejhildreth  I like it!
surprise	tweets	feels the same way about cherry-flavored items as Shannt does about grapes. Strange, but true.
joy	tweets	@ngeow Yeah, planning to do that actually. Got a Kinokuniya discount card, so I'm going to splurge.  Just worried about being overwhelmed.
joy	tweets	@jackalltimelow I just got my JAGK shirt in the mail! Omg I love it!!!  see you saturday!!
joy	tweets	It is going to be a beautiful day!
joy	tweets	@islandprincess2 LMAO!! That is so funny!  Thanks for sharing...I needed that laugh
joy	tweets	@TSchryver ahh! Yay!  so you're gonna get it?
surprise	tweets	@EmilyYoung09 kwl... nm this msn nd homework... but i went 2 c hanna montana hte movie yesterday xx happy mayday btw xx
joy	tweets	Early start today! More rain and more miles!
joy	tweets	Guess who has internet at her house? *raises hand* And it's not dial up.
joy	tweets	I have a 4-H lamb meeting. It should be fun. And it is sunny! Yay! I can play with my horses this afternoon. Clap, clap, clap!!!
joy	tweets	@isaacn86 Thanks! Funny cause it's true!
joy	tweets	lay by the pool and take a nap. my agenda for the day
joy	tweets	Just got back from work, OT na naman. What's new?
joy	tweets	shout out to Sanjeev! thank you for being my first follower  on twitter.
joy	tweets	high &amp; dry goin to have an ice cream now with my best friend.
joy	tweets	@atxtraveler thanks! I will try #boarding out
joy	tweets	@phillybookco Nice yo!!! Live it for me buddy!
joy	tweets	Yes, he's really back!: I couldn't wait for this day to arrive and finally it's here! Gale is back!!!  I'm pos.. http://tinyurl.com/dzzaf5
joy	tweets	Tonight @ 10 on The Northland's NewsCenter we kick off a week long look at Great Summer Getaways in the Northland! Don't miss it!
joy	tweets	@naeem_coza @strandloper Yep. Live and learn
joy	tweets	Good mornin. Today will end early, woo. Gonna work on rick's surprise PROJECT DUE ON TUESDAY
joy	tweets	wishing you all a happy monday and a wonderful start to this week ! Make it a good one
joy	tweets	It's a good day! The lake is a mirror, the kids are happy, and I get to clean the cabin today... Err two outta three ain't bad!
joy	tweets	@Jamie_127 glad you got a laugh out of it
joy	tweets	Well, I'm here, good morning/brunch-ish I took my exam, think I did good
surprise	tweets	@mckra1g  So jealous - I'd LOVE to see the Ella show...in fact I think I'll stream some right now!
joy	tweets	@juliannebritton Ohhh, i really want to see Coraline, it seems really good
joy	tweets	@CraftedClay  most name brands have dairy even if it's called 'semi-sweet' or 'dark'.  I'll try to get some in the HelloVeggies Store!
joy	tweets	@jessicacolon My son is back at school today - feeling much better. He wasn't too sick...he didn't stop eating!
joy	tweets	bye y'all wolverine soon  ooaf hugh jackman, tell ya what he can sctrahc me anytime ;)
surprise	tweets	Played the Eclectricity Festival @ The Custard Factory last night was an UNREAL atmos right till the end! Glad i played last set
joy	tweets	i am listening this song &quot;shattered&quot; by Tynisha keli   www.myspace.com/tynishakeli
joy	tweets	Today I plan on taking my music history final, then catching up on some movies at my movie theatre.
joy	tweets	each day is a new beginning
joy	tweets	@mercedez000 Ta very much!  Happy B-Day to G-son
joy	tweets	Shakti's celebrating her 4th Birthday today!
joy	tweets	@esmeeworld Good luck tonight! have fun
joy	tweets	@Jonasbrothers i can't wait! its most definately going to be amazing.  &lt;3 michelle
joy	tweets	@janeporricelli She lives!  You were so Twitter quiet after the race. Recovering or celebrating?  ps. #20 Fem. in your 1st marathon Wow!
surprise	tweets	@unmarketing Certainly not Cheers than, huh?
joy	tweets	@bellaphonic yay! #iPhone goodness is so fun!
joy	tweets	@SWrightBoucher Hi Susan, read your blog.  It's really good.  I look forward for the tweet updates
joy	tweets	Rain makes for a good study day  almost done!!
joy	tweets	has just come back from horse riding, what a brilliant day
joy	tweets	@sozah Morning Sunshine
joy	tweets	@crumcake That's a relief! I feel better knowing it's hereditary.  Have fun!
surprise	tweets	@Sobk13 I love to eat chicken, would I be a cannibal chicken?
joy	tweets	@DuongSheahan so nice to meet you too! @NancyLoo is the best for bringing me along
joy	tweets	@TheMandyMoore so looking forward to your new album
joy	tweets	Feeling really good about my performance on the AP Government &amp; Politics exam this morning.  Going to lunch with Krista.
joy	tweets	This weekend I started a &quot;Healthy Lifeestyle&quot; - not Diet!     Let's see how it goes - will keep ya posted on my progress.
joy	tweets	i've been eating cheetos all morning..
joy	tweets	@Blanquis26  Morning, hope you have a super day...enjoy !
joy	tweets	@wendaybird silly wendy. You know I don't speak French  just a few more hours to study before this ride begins!
joy	tweets	@MaddieWan Maddie starts working? WATCH OUT WORLD!
joy	tweets	someone said after wolverine they feel like watching x-men all over again. They're right! Now back to business, proposal, yippie!
joy	tweets	is done with classes for her freshman year.
joy	tweets	@MichalkaAlyson I spell my name alyson too! Aly for short! We spell it the best
joy	tweets	@jeanettejoy Shanghai is also really exciting (precisely -- skyscrapers galore). Good tweeps in China: @sdweathers (SH) @winserzhao (BJ).
surprise	tweets	@Llawen Don't know - pretty, though
joy	tweets	@timhahnproject Heh.  When I moved into my house Pius was having a pep rally, so there was cheering and a band.
joy	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day. MAY THE 4TH BE WITH YOU
surprise	tweets	@KG4RDF Good luck on final!
joy	tweets	@mariannemarlow It is a drink but they have a trainer brand too.. http://www.office.co.uk/brand/babycham/8 &lt;&lt;have a look
joy	tweets	I love how two of my favorite shows have the same acronym  lol.
joy	tweets	@howie_d awww glad to know Little Sweet D and Leigh are doing good...thanks for the updates Howie
joy	tweets	@jeg007jeg yay  coutch:couch
joy	tweets	currently munching on baby carrots! nom nom nom nom...
joy	tweets	Haha how exciting  wat does it look like?!
joy	tweets	thinks SG is wonderful
joy	tweets	@IvoryValentine have you seen &quot;The Fifth Element&quot;? makes &quot;super green&quot; a lot funnier
joy	tweets	@KevinRButters Excellent then Chiang Mai is definitely a possible next vacation stop! thanks for the info.
joy	tweets	And now the crazy is all gone.
joy	tweets	about to take my mum out for jewellery shopping and a coffee for mothers day
joy	tweets	show time baby! bye bye for now Tweeters
joy	tweets	Well it would seem that you can enter nine 0s if you are an Individual without a SSN/ITIN or EIN according to Apple.  Hurray!
surprise	tweets	@luckis I watched that too!!! I didnt want her to win, but she put up a good fight..lol
surprise	tweets	@OAMCortney you're alive!!!!!!  Go w/ The Notebook...it'll make you cry and stuff
surprise	tweets	@disavian: saw it yesterday. Pretty good.
joy	tweets	it's after 3 AM.!!  I think it's time to bed.!!  have a good night twitts.! ;))
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/33hus that's my baby
surprise	tweets	@shesasanga um don't u already have like NINE of my paintings?!?! jk, lemme come finish that 4 u
joy	tweets	Zapatos for trashcan nachos and then an epic night
joy	tweets	After seeing Star Trek again, I noticed they went a little crazy with the lens flare.
joy	tweets	There we go... apparently I wasn't properly setting the DateTime from a Twitter response before.  Need a test for that!
joy	tweets	The mothers day classic went really well, despite the cold 5.30am start
surprise	tweets	Is at the movies with the boyfriend!!
joy	tweets	just got home from dinner and am really really full. my mom said my dad bought me a sony a200k? holyyyyyyy
joy	tweets	@DiscoStarChild hahaha n I'm a do the same for u
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake Went to your resteraunt in NYC, it was aaaaaaaaaamazing
surprise	tweets	is highly amused I wasn't treated nicely like any other patient..not my fault my life is better than yours.
joy	tweets	@__Jasper_Hale__ *Laughs* that's because I like winning
joy	tweets	@CloneCommander *Everything* is better with lightsabers
joy	tweets	My birthday is a week from today!
joy	tweets	@NeilMcDaid looks class the water splash looks so real  looking forward to my review copy ;)
joy	tweets	@PerezRevenge Aww ya not showing off all us mums should be proud of ours kids and let everyone know it
joy	tweets	@LGDADON it makes perfect sense. I guess i am very down to earth. Thanks for your reply
joy	tweets	OMG brings me back to my High School Days!  ? http://blip.fm/~5ygpg
joy	tweets	Nina's High: Hanging out with Ninah and Taylor all day! theyre AWESOME  and getting to go home tomorrow to see my MOM  Nina's Low: NADA
joy	tweets	@blueobsidian Always a good idea.
joy	tweets	....ok, sOooooooooo I DID that!! i've got u in the palm of my hand
joy	tweets	@DanWarp: Loved it!  Would never have thought he was into the iCarly version of Beanie Babies. xD
joy	tweets	haaah, making the card for mothers day,  and listening to musicc
joy	tweets	@adamdon lol, get to your bed
joy	tweets	get it right! I think I am obsessed with Hydes' voice @_@  I've chosen a guitar song to learn for the summer! Time to perfect picking!
joy	tweets	can't wait for Daughtry's new album! Ack. Two more months!!!
joy	tweets	@vogonpoetry42 At least there's no denying nerd is part of it!
joy	tweets	Thanks so much to everyone who came out to Speakeasy last night! What a hit. Wonderful to see you all having fun! June will be awesome.
joy	tweets	waiting for JONAS to come on
joy	tweets	Well that sucked except for the company I had. Go Kelly.
joy	tweets	Next to my birthday- Mother's Day is my favorite day of the year.  The one day I don't feel guilty for slacking just a little.   Aaaahh...
joy	tweets	Perfect day: flute quartets in the morning, web marketing in the afternoon with Barrie, and Star Trek in the evening
joy	tweets	Watching next day air
joy	tweets	Belting Next to Normal is a fabulous evening choice
joy	tweets	@allearsdeb http://twitpic.com/4w0yj - wow, fancy!
joy	tweets	Spending the first night in my new place!
joy	tweets	i decided that myspacee is wayy better
joy	tweets	@BADSenoritaa when u do get at me i will show u all the hotspots there is no where i dont kno when it comes to shoppin here lol
joy	tweets	baked a cake &amp; watching a movie.
joy	tweets	@ddlovato http://twitpic.com/4vuuy - thats the most colorful thing ive seen all day,wow.
joy	tweets	@CinnamonCloud well you'll ether have to buy the DVD or wailt till july to see the Secret Episode!!   Episode 13!
joy	tweets	@_chloe yes! it's on youtube  its from may 7th, and it made me feel 100x better. it's halarious.
joy	tweets	Just got up from a nap.. Relaxing for the night
joy	tweets	oh man had great nap (still alittle tired) having pizza for dinner.
surprise	tweets	@rayatkinson last I looked.  Hi back...
joy	tweets	@elengrey Yay!  Lucky!  What'd you do?
joy	tweets	twitter fam, i`m about to hop back on AIM i went ghost on y`all lolz sowwy
joy	tweets	@JRKNaughtyNurse Yep, @thespunkyone that B-Day kiss is gonna happen, right @JonathanRKnight
joy	tweets	@lancegross http://twitpic.com/4vd89 - such a good looking cpl!! can't wait to see what kind of kids y'all will have!
joy	tweets	just finished watching &quot;Role Models&quot; (hilarious), and debating whether to go to 251. Hmmm...
joy	tweets	Went shopping a lil... I deserve it... And now a night on the town in the big city of Norfolk
joy	tweets	@kamiNcali Oh, no need to stop. I could use the ego boost.
joy	tweets	I wish I can see clips of your show that you hosted. Hottie Shawn in the 80's! and yes your still a Hottie!
joy	tweets	@elysion32  I am here to make friends.. real life, internet.. what ever level people are comfortable with..
joy	tweets	walked over 140 blocks today. then ate a delicious black &amp; white cookie.
joy	tweets	Sometimes i feel pathetic going to bed so early. Oh well.  i TOTALLY get clam chowder tomorrow! =D
joy	tweets	Haven't been on in foreverr!  Almost happy mother's dayy. Yay. :]
joy	tweets	Enjoying d view @ sg flyer
joy	tweets	@jimmymcdonald Let me know how that turns out!!
joy	tweets	This feeling inside me, Oh it sends me sky high...
surprise	tweets	World's Happiest Places ...   Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands
joy	tweets	@EverRaven I figured you'd be bouncing about it
surprise	tweets	@lomascar yo i got my blur tickets yesterday  i'm going on the 1st day whatbouts u?
surprise	tweets	we went, we bought, we conquered! and we came back with the most delicious custard croissant
surprise	tweets	@NewShoreline Ouch, give me a heads up so I'll know when to duck
joy	tweets	saw Hannah Montana Movie today!! was the best!!!!!! was AWESOMEEEEEE!!!!!!  Hannah  and Miley RockS! lol
joy	tweets	At the @drakkardnoir concert! I hope @SongzYuuup makes a guest appearance
joy	tweets	New Twitter coolness: conversations with neighbors (http://is.gd/ybd0) during a thunderstorm.
joy	tweets	@tenotch awesome, I'm glad you like it.  FYI - Platinum Notes 3.0 should be out as a free upgrade this summer
surprise	tweets	@4ut I am ok, I think I will just take the attitude that Mothers Day is an invented Hallmark holiday from now on
disgust	tweets	@GregInsco thats another sponsor
surprise	tweets	@MissVerna http://twitpic.com/4visl - WOW this looks incredible! wicked job on the butterflies! they're fantastic!
joy	tweets	Pool, alcohol, &amp; a cute band, couldn't ask for more on a Saturday night  #fb http://twitpic.com/4w1rr
joy	tweets	@SweetWifey Her new cd is lovely.
joy	tweets	1 surprise party today, 2 parties tomorrow.  FunFunFun! But, need to finish bug project. O_O
joy	tweets	@iamkeshia happy birthday keshia, keshia, bo beshia
joy	tweets	@Turch Aww, congrats to the family. ;) Send me piccies in the email!
joy	tweets	05/30 - first session  yay me!
joy	tweets	@Prince_Aries Me and that person have something in common then! LOL jk....
joy	tweets	@lilcdawg its because we run on CPT!!!
joy	tweets	big ups sister #1 for calling in too
joy	tweets	Just sang &quot;Shine&quot; by Newsboys in the car with @hollyewallace Holla!
joy	tweets	@OfficialBgizzle  Whaaaaaaaaaat?!  Thas HOT B!    Super nice!
joy	tweets	Less than 24 hrs until GRADUATION!!! Going out tonight to celebrate
surprise	tweets	@PrinceSammie OMG its working
surprise	tweets	Dan and alli are here. They suprised me
joy	tweets	Star Trek rocked!  It was WAY better than I expected
joy	tweets	going to another birthday party tonite
joy	tweets	i cooked breakfast for my mom  HAPPY
surprise	tweets	@addieking it was amazing
surprise	tweets	@EhMahLee Were you able to watch it online?!  I hope you were!  And yeah, Belinda Jensen was really good
joy	tweets	Only six hours left of being 15
joy	tweets	@Iamme828 No becuz we're being honest! Lets look at the big picture..my happy ending with the smile on my face
joy	tweets	Eatin nachos watchin the game.!  all i gOtta say is LebrOn is a Beast. ! dO anybOdy feel me.?
joy	tweets	LOL. My moms present cost 69 dollars.
joy	tweets	@fotojen @halgriffin hope you guys are having fun!  Can't wait for ya'll to be back, Wilmy isn't the same without you
surprise	tweets	@smokinace88 - Last night was the best one so far I think. Except we didn't see him throw his equipment at the car
joy	tweets	@artcon http://twitpic.com/4vfcx - awesomeeeeee
surprise	tweets	trying to decide what to do tonight. Study Chem or write the night away. The night's still young, perhaps I'll do both
joy	tweets	I'm feeling better now that I have something in my tummy
joy	tweets	CSI NY comes back to aus with 'sex, lies and silicone' (s05e04) EVRYONE ON EAST COAST TUNE IN TONIGHT  pleaseee
joy	tweets	Just came back from hanging out with some friends + cocktails. &lt;3 I'm not drunk, but feeling good.  Hope everyone's well?
joy	tweets	Relaxing after a busy week and a tedious Saturday . . .
surprise	tweets	@Jeremy_LaMont yr very young looking dude
joy	tweets	@hellocupcake84 Well I'm trying to get rid of a lot of my stuff.  You could come over and pillage.
joy	tweets	is learning how to play Waiting for Love by P!nk on acustic guitar!  epic
joy	tweets	@theDebbyRyan Just left you a message! Hope you get it
joy	tweets	finished eating sushi with ladiez  getting shwasteddddddddd**
joy	tweets	definitely ready for a plate of pancakes.
joy	tweets	me &amp; kelly share the same last name, wouldnt that be sweet if we were related  @TheEllenShow
joy	tweets	Family is here,hanging with them
joy	tweets	phew!  made it thru the return of babysitting!
joy	tweets	&quot;you can ride one, you can catch one, but its not summer til you pop open one&quot;  ?
surprise	tweets	gasp-- 10 followers! i feel almost famous. i used to think i would be famous when i grew up one day LOL. oh well, cheers to norm peeps!
joy	tweets	@WayneDaStar oh wow THANKS Wayne
joy	tweets	Had a nice pre mother's day dinner out. Now a cocktail before retiring for the evening
joy	tweets	Scratch that. Now we're watching 'marley and me'. Thinking I could stay awake better for this one.
surprise	tweets	@sarahdope http://twitpic.com/4w22u - Its so pretty! The girls must love you a whole lot  Happy bday again!
joy	tweets	@jojowright http://twitpic.com/4w24f - ooh, nice score, jojo!
surprise	tweets	@Jennettemccurdy http://twitpic.com/4uy8l - LOL  why are they drumming there?
joy	tweets	Glad to see @Nigellamb and more Red Bull Air Racers here keeping us in the loop
joy	tweets	@ForetDeMichelle you don't need my physical presence, you have my energy already!!!
joy	tweets	Adventures with jamie and bethhh
joy	tweets	My three-day weekend starts now.  Was gonna watch Star Trek, but opted to go another night instead.
joy	tweets	@lyndons think yourself lucky!  I also broke  all my fingers at school when a window sash broke with my fingers like pancakes on the sill
surprise	tweets	@XDmexicanXD no, sir, they did not! i was amazed when i woke up this morning.
joy	tweets	Ok we found our way now... I think  tonight let's just let go its dance time!
joy	tweets	everyone follow @FollowMandy and @FollowSavvy ! they are amazing
joy	tweets	@paulwingz nothinbg home about to jump in the shower the streets is calling meeeeeeee  @STEFFSOFLII what is it 4 tonight @COKEbabyy tell m
surprise	tweets	@plynke plus, look at all the orbs! you either have ghosts or you need to clean the mirror
joy	tweets	going to see star trak expecting noting but amazing
joy	tweets	Night of the cookers with my dad
joy	tweets	@Ja101 Makes me wish I had dogs instead of cats!
surprise	tweets	@erinlouise @Miss604 being a fan is certainly not about being attractive. But, if you like the pink, to each their own  #canucks
joy	tweets	and we're off  to OT !! exciting game like always
joy	tweets	@InnyVinny why thank you!  u out tonight?
joy	tweets	chillin with my bros and a couple of yeunglings   doesn't get much better than this
joy	tweets	Playing pacman on itouch!  lol
joy	tweets	pythonkings.nl    equals ----&gt;       almost better than the sims....
joy	tweets	At the reception eating some nasty ass pasta Woot! But other than that its beautiful!
joy	tweets	@hnnhmllr lmao! You baked non-stop? Sounds like yummy fun!
joy	tweets	Feeling smooth like chrome
joy	tweets	Fun at the water park then dinner at the rainforest cafe (all free!) then party tonight  pretty good Saturday I think.
joy	tweets	@Jonasbrothers OMJ I loved it....it was a good laugh and Frankie did a great job, and you guys did too ~Agnes
joy	tweets	@crzyqbn That's awesome dude, yay for surprise celebrities!  I got to meet him a few years ago, he was soooo friendly.
joy	tweets	home for the night to hang out with my mom and study
joy	tweets	Nothing beats spending an evening with my mom
joy	tweets	Healthy Wishes. I may just start saying that.
joy	tweets	i just made the best turtle ice cream pie everrrrr  btw, happy (soon to be) mothers day!
joy	tweets	@IamTam not having your lights on concerns me! Lol! Stay safe!
joy	tweets	@TheRealKitCat Haha...YAY!!! I'M CURED!!!!
joy	tweets	@scottlava was fun meeting u today! thanks for all the doodles on the goodies i got! hope u have a super time in TO &amp; visit again soon!
joy	tweets	@SunnyBuns Haha, you didn't do anything wrong.
surprise	tweets	Headin 2 chilis Mr. Presidente's callin my name! Then 2 the ice house
surprise	tweets	downloading the right/real speedracher now.
joy	tweets	@CelestialQ good!  now let's go get this done..... www.HennesseyBlack.com
joy	tweets	@AnnCurry The photos are AMAZING! What a GREAT subject &amp; way to get people educated about Darfur! HUGS! U are an inspiring woman!
joy	tweets	Heading back home with a win!
joy	tweets	@RealBillBailey it really made my night. infact, it made my weekend! well done.
joy	tweets	such a long day, heading to bed  . iloveyou &lt;3
joy	tweets	@Pranajama I've never been to Prague, but if i had the money, it'll be in the 10 first cities I visit
joy	tweets	@c4ss4ndr4 do I discern a request for Hulu support? excellent idea!
joy	tweets	watching shark boy and lava girl! on disney channel. hanging out with sarah jane, micah, &amp; rachel
joy	tweets	whats going on tonight?!?!?! lets partyyyyy!
joy	tweets	@FollowMyJourney Oh girl, get that baby going to bed at 7pm!
joy	tweets	@Spacegirlnz DON'T PANIC! Hehe, it will be fine. Email it to me
joy	tweets	Welll my folkiesss(; im offf to dream land;work in the mornin;ugh;ewwy. Talkkk to me;but tomorrow  &lt;3 lurvee ya'll[;&gt;
surprise	tweets	@geofferyjohnson looking forward to it. we're sitting at the bar.
joy	tweets	Whew.... finally home after putting in some hours in the lab. Watching Catch Me if You Can and eating cheese and grapes. Good night
surprise	tweets	@theellenshow get @kalebnation the twilightguy on your show
joy	tweets	@mrstreme Thanks so much! I will be back on tour soon. Two new books in the pipeline!
joy	tweets	i would like to see bacn.me added to tweetdeck as an option for a url shortener   tweetdeck would be even better with #bacon
joy	tweets	I should have know that &quot;extra hand&quot; comment would cause trouble...  About to upload House Music and Beyond Vol. 3
joy	tweets	@she_writes i've been wanting it for 2 years LOL...that and a HD camcorder
joy	tweets	@cschug We do! Its been to long! I think i have next weekend open. When are you going to have the house warming party
joy	tweets	You can't take this feeling away from me&lt;3. going to lay down &amp; watch a movie.
joy	tweets	@Annaeeee yeah I m so happy for them that they should moved on and out there partying I m so happy
joy	tweets	at least I get to watch over time  Let's go Pens!!
joy	tweets	@KatjaPresnal Thanks  #sigjeans
joy	tweets	@MikeHuntington oops, me and my drunken stupor lol. Ima check it out
joy	tweets	@Keels_90 haha agreed  LOL
joy	tweets	Making pork stir-fry and brown rice for dinner.
surprise	tweets	home in carlsbad with the whole family for mother's day!
joy	tweets	@LexyMez Thanks so much Alex! Best wishes for the day to you and yours
joy	tweets	@slicefate I love the humor, I just reworded it. Like saying &quot;group therapy&quot; instead'a &quot;gang banging&quot;. Keeps my moms off my back.   Hahaha
joy	tweets	Playing d.j in Ray's ride! On our way to have some delish sushi
joy	tweets	@justlikethem I would lime them. Or lemon?  And deal, sounds fabulous to me!  Text me up when you're back
joy	tweets	Just shot my new .22 rifle!  The auto-reset plinker target I built in shop class works great!
joy	tweets	@Bout14  Yeah, I only drank a little bit anyways. It definitely was the show and not the drink!!
surprise	tweets	@xCUNHAx o yea? awwww, how sweet!! U r good kids!
joy	tweets	@bandit_zero its cool, and thats good
joy	tweets	@penpen72 Haha, true  thankfully the regular keyboard does the job... most of the time.
joy	tweets	@GetSmart86 haha...Live long &amp; prosper. The movie was better than I thought, they did an awesome job, I'm pleased
joy	tweets	my dad and i totally just rocked out to the offspring-pretty fly for a white guy. haha.
surprise	tweets	@dorkchops WOOHOOO very cool see I knew u would get to see her
joy	tweets	@joenoia lol to see my king
joy	tweets	Had to change &quot;within 50 miles&quot;, because within 25 miles were effin' BORING.
joy	tweets	@Medi_Ready What's you're new cite/business about?? I'd love to hear about it  Doing the same myself actually
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight BTW I STILL can't believe how Awesome the NEWJABBAKIDZ performance was...U in the masks..I screamed at my pc
surprise	tweets	at the theatre.... seeing star trek for a second time becuase i am that cool
joy	tweets	@Victoryhawk It depends if you are having fun or not...
joy	tweets	@HeatherHAL Thanks Heather, glad you like the dish
disgust	tweets	i have been in the lounge for HOURS...and i have not been productive at all. upps time to go out
joy	tweets	Happy imma get to see some lovely ladies
joy	tweets	i forgot how much i really needed music until i barely had any for about a week. but i have music now. yay!
joy	tweets	Congrats to Dave &amp; Anna! Surprise proposal at the Enzian Theater in Orlando  http://qik.com/video/1638824
joy	tweets	@michaelsheen Well I guess they think of everything   Thanks so much for keeping the fans in the loop
joy	tweets	@MoRethANHuMAn hey you! Did you get my present this morning? Hope u liked it?
surprise	tweets	New comic posted. Introducing  &quot;Joe! - The Mini Strip&quot;  http://tinyurl.com/oasxx2 (via @mbillingsley80) cute Mother's day strip!
joy	tweets	@harrislacewell You are a dope mom too! Love you too!!! Now stop drinking the mom juice, stop twittering and get some rest!
joy	tweets	@E315 -. ---    .--. -... .-. --- .-.. . --   It would be better to hear that then read it, but it's a start
joy	tweets	live long and prosper
joy	tweets	Karaoke at a small town bar. Having a wonderful time!
joy	tweets	Oh it is so sunny.
joy	tweets	@DirtyRose17  told you, you would sweep haha :-p
joy	tweets	@Rachel_Pengov: Extremely so! I'm in an incredible mood
joy	tweets	on the way to kuya jordan's house for an O's sleepover  !
joy	tweets	happiest girl in the world.  best weekend ever and I can't wait for next weekend either!!!  so grateful for all my blessings!
joy	tweets	@maryrivss hahaha that was funnyy!
joy	tweets	@gashead Prowse? I got a Christmas card of him last year.  &amp; I wish I had the money right now. Saving for an apartment
joy	tweets	getted crunk of budweiser with the fam bam
joy	tweets	live on stickam.com/itstyleryo COME CHAT!
joy	tweets	@ClayWalker so glad, I hope yall make it back down near New Orleans
surprise	tweets	is off to somewhere.
disgust	tweets	I'm my mom's company picnic at a Lake Elsinore Storm game. Oh the things we do to please moms
joy	tweets	@jennyinmaui I just read your twitter bio. Love it. Very clever and cute. I'm all about smiles.
joy	tweets	Yay! Bannerbomb for the Wii is finally out. I can run homebrew on my 4.0 Wii.
joy	tweets	@Lizzs_Lockeroom Maybe   But you start to really like a team after living 12 years in the city.  Was there for 2 Cups.  Awesome!
joy	tweets	@deauxboi LOL...he was cool! shoooooot...
joy	tweets	grecia! its between mood &amp; party! i wanna see him lol but we are going out fershure.
joy	tweets	everyone get #buckonellen one of the topic things!
joy	tweets	@caffeinefueled Welcome back
joy	tweets	feels great after solving a minor but long term problem with 3ds max just now!  Maybe I should try animating the avatar after all? xD
joy	tweets	@xodedexo18 OMG, I get the $50 coupon from them all the time, do you?? I'm obsessed with their catalog when it comes in the mail
joy	tweets	Enjoyed see'n everyone last night! even tho it was a really bad night financially... Cant wait to kick it again @ the drive -ins!
joy	tweets	having a great time in kc  http://twitpic.com/4w3fi
joy	tweets	@a_double as if there are any other kind  http://myloc.me/Fkl
joy	tweets	@Miss_Kookie girl,rain is my song forrealll!!!
joy	tweets	@bendvrx no swearing ben, say 'fudge'
joy	tweets	@missoliviaa i decided it was best for me to stay in tonight lady. i shall be in pittsburgh soon!!  (FAREWELL!!!)
joy	tweets	@princeryan No, I'm waiting for it to come to DVD. (I'm frugal.)  You saw it?
joy	tweets	@LifeByChocolate alredy had my chocolate  it is impossible to resist ;)
surprise	tweets	@Bx3800 ohh yes. I've rented one and thought the same; very roomy. But hubby wont go for it.  welp, congrats on the new baby
joy	tweets	just rearranged the living room- it looks HUGE.  This is what Joe and I do on a Saturday night
surprise	tweets	@TRIPLEBEAMDREAM Having a Leatherman, is a MUST, really for anybody! You never know, when you might need one &amp; it gets the job done.
disgust	tweets	@onamatepiya piyaaa! hi. :] im hyper &amp; im bored &amp; im online &amp; im going to find pictures for the noteboook.  still cant send messages. grr.
surprise	tweets	Off to prom. Say hi to me
surprise	tweets	For the record, john mayer is freaking cool.
surprise	tweets	@MrEricPiRaTe ah, I see now. Cool dude
joy	tweets	knocked up is sooo godamn funny. never gets old  &quot;you're tupac. you're biggie.&quot; lol
joy	tweets	@archuletachick lol i know! I was like oh ya tough guy!
joy	tweets	heading to Kitsilano for a BBQ  this weather is b.e.a... UTIFUL!! x
joy	tweets	had such a fun time with allegra tonite!!! we saw 17again!! good movie
joy	tweets	headed to the beach with puppy maverick hugs and much aloha
joy	tweets	@digital_geisha @savasavasava  For reals. It's lovely being around someone so refreshingly analog in his interests
joy	tweets	@RClapham Well we'll have to organize one for when you can get down, can't guarantee no oldies though
surprise	tweets	@booandginger Thats good!  Keep it up guys! Would love to come down and visit sonetime
surprise	tweets	@zacgandara .. did you have to bust a cap? tell me you had to bust a cap for Jesus!
joy	tweets	Viviann's all minee. Yummm
joy	tweets	@sweeti20 thanks  i make ur job a little less crappier every day!
joy	tweets	Right now at my second gig !!! Sippinn on guess whut ? Water  we sta focused we are on the job
joy	tweets	On my way to see star trek
surprise	tweets	@aussiecynic Blow me away it IS raining harder here. Yay you, well done
joy	tweets	Off to see my lovely mum  Then maybe star trek!
joy	tweets	Sulumits Retsambew is thinking: A billion here, a billion there, pretty soon it adds up to real money.
surprise	tweets	@AdamSatayer lol, so your mum likes a bit of the ol' clergy ordained ultra violence?
joy	tweets	Has no idea wtf Twitter is about but willing to give it a go!  Going out for a bit!
joy	tweets	Awesome night ahead: BAD v Rat City! Most of my favorite skaters on one track  #fb
joy	tweets	just made DIY acid wash shorts! can't wait to see what they look like
joy	tweets	yey finally home
joy	tweets	@ceemce Home Friday makes me  too!!!
joy	tweets	is closing at 10 instead of 12 yay!!  just 15 min till i can go home and talk to my lovebug!!
joy	tweets	@deiu you guys are moving to LA?! Why so far? But we shall make a castle before you leave!
joy	tweets	@itouchiphone thanks got it will contact you if i am having troubles!Thanks
joy	tweets	responding to more questions at Thou Shall Blog! I appreciate this community.
joy	tweets	not letting anyone get me down  tired of taking on other people's pain all the time! I am a happy person with or without drama... om.....!
joy	tweets	eating nothing, drinking water, about to watch a movie, join me?
joy	tweets	Home from work
joy	tweets	@tararizing so i'll excuse your love for the Cavs and the west, even though I don't share it!
surprise	tweets	Not at prom. Ha! Chinese, iced chai, and some old school pokemon. Good night
surprise	tweets	Oh, yes... Happy NINE year annivarsary to Hanson's second studio album, &quot;This Time Around.&quot;
joy	tweets	thx for the tip.  how did you figure that one out?
joy	tweets	I am officially a kindergarten cop
joy	tweets	@MichaelHotaling Thanks for the thoughts... Unfortunatly it didn't work out like we hoped... ah well. The paintings were beautiful.
joy	tweets	@MCFAN247 Glitter, she sings on it!
joy	tweets	Boredddddd Follower @meryreino Shes AMAZING!!  *Broken*
joy	tweets	@emilmor it was fun  Ate at mas.Thanks!!  Good luck w/ ur showing tomorrow.
joy	tweets	Chillen with Csla.. Waiting to start.. Watchin pacquiao rerun..
surprise	tweets	@DawnRichard  Thanks Sissy!!!!!!! Be sure to check ur Myspace tonight, It's gonna be Something! Luv Ya!!!!
surprise	tweets	@KarlosFarrar check out review for the movie Fighting - http://bit.ly/Fle9j  Hilarious!! leave this guy a comment!
joy	tweets	woke up from napping  finally got the sleep i needed
joy	tweets	@LILJIZZEL hahaha! YES I AM!  Lil Jon is the freakin jizzle! U know I named my 1st puppy after u? Lil Jizzle...remember? LOL...xoxox
joy	tweets	making more muffinsss, wheat jerm AANNNDD psyillium husk
joy	tweets	@mistressmia Their is no such thing as TRANSPARENCY only selective OPACITY...
joy	tweets	Almost dun choreographing the dance
joy	tweets	Very very interesting night in Defiance to say the least... but hey, I got 'Guys and Dolls' for free!
joy	tweets	@jennywoo42 we had bbq chicken pizza last night! (although it wasn't deep dish   glad to hear you had fun in p.r.!!
joy	tweets	@SafiG Lol..Wat was Vibes doin on Atlantic? &amp; where's ur shirt in your twitter pic? lol
joy	tweets	went swimming with the fam for over 2 hours! we're a little toasty
joy	tweets	@teacherPaddy hey Padster...it's a dirt track.  thx for the info! I got 3 miles in
joy	tweets	is having a jam session in her room and then seeing star trek...again
joy	tweets	@konghee Have a good time with Sun &amp; Dayan there at NY!
joy	tweets	@TheMadModel Soooo happy your back!
joy	tweets	Guess what? mom adopted a kitty today (11 months) His name is Corky
joy	tweets	is excited!  http://plurk.com/p/stk04
joy	tweets	@NKANGEL74 Sweet! Thanks!
joy	tweets	check it out check it out check it out.
joy	tweets	@mcr_chick haha. I completely agree
joy	tweets	On my shoot with Ron and Torey! Have lots of fun
joy	tweets	listening to some music!
joy	tweets	@theellenshow @KalebNation twilightguy.com kalebnation.com youtube.com/kalebnation PUT HIM ON THE SHOW! Sry for spamming but we love him
surprise	tweets	@ElyssaD this is twistory... in the making. Yeah, I stole that one from you
surprise	tweets	@AmyriadfthINGs Yeah, I've never seen that! But, I guess I've never really needed it.
joy	tweets	The usual. Two family parties today. Happy Birthday Lily!  http://twitpic.com/4w472
joy	tweets	@mbm88 ahhh I'm drinking some too!! And bride wars is really good
joy	tweets	@scodal  yeah I saw, looks like hard work, But I would know  whats upp handsome
joy	tweets	Chocolate milk and subway. MMM
joy	tweets	@Joviswillow Loved those books   Did you read The Host?  Amazing storyteller.
joy	tweets	Woo hoo! My happiness score is 612. Apparently I am over-the-top happy. Considering the week I've had....
joy	tweets	Watching Miley Cyrus on youtube!
joy	tweets	@michaelsheen can't wait to see.  i hear you are a pretty HOT Aro.
joy	tweets	@bobbyrettew  That makes my day so much better, it's been a rough one. Did I mention I love the new photo!
joy	tweets	looong day! 8 houuurs of work, then a 5 minute shower, then back out with shane, and now here  man, i can hear my bed calllling a bunch!
joy	tweets	@NLiukin hey i know ya dont know me but i wanted to say yopu have helped me a lot i was over in iraq and i wanted to thank you
joy	tweets	The sun is out here in Melbourne! Happy Mothers Day to all the mums out there
surprise	tweets	At TGC concert  good to see old friends and remember the old times!
joy	tweets	@GeorgiaPrincez No but I just checked and got it LOL. You are ok! I went live for a few minutes and everything is fine.
joy	tweets	Home from Ghosts of Girlfriends past with my lovely luddite  Not exactly high theatre, but a good date movie!
joy	tweets	@parislisbonne I'm glad you liked it   Want more?
joy	tweets	@natashabrown brad's face when he saw that gift is priceless!! Thnx Nat!
joy	tweets	haircut as short as possible, even change color , new me
surprise	tweets	@astonesthrow @debsparkles @sheabath1  - Overwhelming lead for Strawberry Lemonade!!  My husband voted for Banana Fosters tho.
joy	tweets	is enjoying family time. Hoping to be able to make a graceful exit and enjoy some friend time soon
joy	tweets	@felixcau Hehe
joy	tweets	Today is my first Mothers Day with my little boy. Hope you're having a beautiful Mothers Day too
joy	tweets	waiting for the plane at the airport   so exited bout going to tasmania see ya when i get back
joy	tweets	@girlygirl007 Well done! Happy for ya.
joy	tweets	Happy morning to everyone!
joy	tweets	@AshleyTaylor_x3 you are too sweet girl!! My food was soooo good
joy	tweets	i always have 2 do xtra cleaning b4 leaving... so now were on da road  on 2 springhill suites, then cafe 360, yum!
surprise	tweets	@howie_d aww thats so awesome, i can imagine your little one with a head full of curly hair - i adore Leigh, shes so great
joy	tweets	Helping Devin at his photo studio. I'm sitting back, sipping a green apple martini, and watching him assemble everything.
joy	tweets	about to play my first game of apple to apples!!   wish me luck...
joy	tweets	Dinner with the parental unit is always grand
joy	tweets	@amhartnett That sounds like fun
joy	tweets	really really getting excited!
joy	tweets	@agentdelblaine yeahh
joy	tweets	at home with her fam  see you in CoMo tomorrow!
joy	tweets	7 hours and many massages later, I can now spend time with my wife and son. It's mother's day ya'll. Don't forget to grab a gift or card.
surprise	tweets	@ijustine ... like you're stuff!  Strange voicemails! http://bit.ly/yKxms
joy	tweets	@inuyaki Macs, food, Spam ... I knew I had to follow you.
surprise	tweets	boy don't try to front i-i know just-just what you are-are-are
joy	tweets	@jstueve Oh LOL! Yes, on Facebook! That's a nice safe environment. Like a church basement!
joy	tweets	@Sweetcakes16 lol well i learned somethin new  thx !
joy	tweets	1 John is an amazing book. Just what I needed to brighten my mood.
joy	tweets	@stkulp lol. your tweets are always fun to follow  Never a dull moment with the Kulps!
joy	tweets	Swimming party at my brothers tonight. I had an AWESOME time.  Since when am I a sissy about cold water?  Who am I?    LOVED TODAY!!!
joy	tweets	@youngscraphics - I produce/direct/film/edit... I write... I coordinate events... I manage Don Fetti... there ain't much I don't do!
joy	tweets	caught up on emails for my research project.  yay for labels and search in #gmail.  much easier
joy	tweets	star trek was grtsat bggeting drunk now
joy	tweets	Reds win! Great end to a great day
surprise	tweets	Catching up on 2 weeks of LOST and Grey's!!    House is quiet again.
joy	tweets	Back from a long day of working it's good to finally be at home.   How is everyone tonight?
joy	tweets	@angusmaclean yeah I've been there, my son is two so we go to only the kid friendly places now;) congrats on the baby!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w3zh - My son, Finley.
surprise	tweets	@NahLyssa  hey!! how are you??? you found me
joy	tweets	What a beautiful day! Hangin with the guys Graham and Josiah  lol waiting for the others. If you wanna stop by come on over ;) with food
joy	tweets	says Happy Mother's Day to all Moms out there  http://plurk.com/p/stkr2
joy	tweets	stealth shopping - got wife b-day present while at mall together and she didn't notice - buy, hide it in car, back before she missed me
surprise	tweets	@theellenshow Please bring @kalebnation to your show
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight I am jealous...Ur koi fish are getting ur attention &amp; I'm not.....lmao   I'm kidding!!
joy	tweets	@LilPecan We people? I'm just an amateur Ark builder, no political affiliation. All are welcome
joy	tweets	@sarahismail95 its cool
joy	tweets	seen mi abueltia at the hospital... she's doing good!
joy	tweets	@JohnLusher You're welcome! It's been a wonderful day  How about you? Stayin outta trouble or should I be ready to crash a party? LOL
joy	tweets	morning sunshine
joy	tweets	@vinnipukh I'll give him a hug when I see him  tell him I say hi
joy	tweets	My mom just came home and she FINALLY got me a guitar strap! yay!
joy	tweets	@ddlovato Glad u r back Demi! You're such a talented, authentic and amazing girl. Keep doing what you love, you're making it brilliant
joy	tweets	@ginjagin That's great Bastos!  I'm happy for you. You gonna do the mabaho leg, to celebrate? haha
surprise	tweets	@toxiccupcakeCxC LOL have whoopi? Who are u Chuck Woolery?
joy	tweets	@BrandonSmithCEO Wow. That's looks really good. I wish I had some. Was it good?
joy	tweets	@chaosandharmony Where are you at the mo Becks??  Guessing it's you.  Met you Tga WBW when you spoke there last yr. Business or holiday?
joy	tweets	@erik_rubadeau Last weekend I had a pretty solid brunch at Bar Wellington. Hard to screw up steak and eggs, though
joy	tweets	@rescapism hahahah tell me about it tomorrow then
joy	tweets	Fashion Show is done &amp; only one slip...now cooking &amp; having a glass of wine or two
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to every mommy out there
joy	tweets	@ZooeyDe : It's very nice to be able following you on Twitter
joy	tweets	Guess I was too late  #sigjeans
joy	tweets	It's a Peter &amp; Gordon morning  -&gt; And I, go to pieces and I wanna hide / Go to pieces and I almost die / Ever... ? http://blip.fm/~5yk38
joy	tweets	Ahhhhh now If You Go Away  by @nkotb is on @retrorewind YAY my other fav song of theirs
joy	tweets	Happy to see Kurt spin.
joy	tweets	@stryperband - Love the comeback, I will stay tuned! You fellows should follow people on here though. You'll in turn get more followers
joy	tweets	CONGRATS @couponprincess!! I just KNEW a princess would win!!!   #sigjeans
joy	tweets	@Malunis A couple of other guys did similar mods, so it may not have been mine that @Artoni saw. I think mine's the best, but I'm biased
joy	tweets	Law and Order! Yeah, I stay home on Sat nite!
joy	tweets	@AmberCadabra Wow, I haven't watched that movie in ages. It is quite fantastic.
joy	tweets	correction...a hot coco in my NKOTB cup  what a sweety!!!!
joy	tweets	@wendywings cute   Time for a twitpic ;)
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers out there!!
joy	tweets	@meredithhawkins Aww nice
joy	tweets	@amyswarren ahhh yay! I'm getting into it. Knockin' a lot out.
joy	tweets	Just bought a flavor for my snow cone machine  mhm!Yummay! I need new sunglasses Rachel&amp;I have a plan!Yezzz-sir-E we do Ruless to Much!
joy	tweets	@heatherjacobs indeed! we are trying to get it in the Trending topics for the fun of it  all Some Twilighters idea!
surprise	tweets	@aquabh i'm not sure what stracchino is, but it sounds good.
joy	tweets	@kingsthings Larry, yes Obama is pretty much funny today. The kids took airforce one on a joy ride  he is really putting on the shtich
surprise	tweets	Going to sunnybank
joy	tweets	I'm going to obu for the night.
joy	tweets	Tired and gunna go to bed soon!!! First time I've been online today!!  All ready for mother's day tomorow
joy	tweets	@BabyVOfficial  aww thatz 2 bad...ud b great in new moon
joy	tweets	@jasonhoard welcome aboard my friend... the fans are gonna LOVE ya here
joy	tweets	Another amazing day. Ever since I got a Twitter, I've been having great days
joy	tweets	@cocotian of course i do.. such an adorable face.
joy	tweets	Lossing power while your in your house alone? Not fucckinggg cool. Party at cakss!
joy	tweets	@LeslieIN u can see I just twitted them if its the real xmsirius that is. Let me know any other contact info. Lets transmit this!
joy	tweets	@fuelbot hahahahahahahahahahahahaha  that could be interesting
joy	tweets	@leighwsmith better safe than sorry!  Glad everything is okay.
joy	tweets	watching the games and making some popcornss!
surprise	tweets	mothers day...love you madre   chels tonight. cant wait for her to see her present!
joy	tweets	finished the book... vat a good book &lt;3333
joy	tweets	@socks_b_rockin hey it's Julia. On twitter. Don't faint. I'm trying to get it to send to my phone
joy	tweets	@RachelxVacancy hi 80th fallower
joy	tweets	Okay people my fones charged
joy	tweets	@sdelighted Oh yay! Glad you are there and having fun with the baby.
joy	tweets	&quot;Then It HappenED&quot;, sorry. Watching a movie with some friends in a while!  Fun fun!
joy	tweets	I can only message those who message me, if we're fwends...so those that want replies..follow me.  hmm..that sounds funny..
joy	tweets	@morgandonovan Haha, nice! ;) Thanks for letting me know!
joy	tweets	@VanetaRogers Thank ye, Vaneta.  Much appreciated
joy	tweets	@kidb thanks again for coming out to support us  you rock!
joy	tweets	New Star Trek movie = Awesomeness. Unnecessary brief underwear scene (pun intended) but besides that, just awesomeness.  #startrek
joy	tweets	I know exactly where i should be
surprise	tweets	@laexis and the habitat is twitter-active. Neat
joy	tweets	goodmorning !
surprise	tweets	@andwoahalex my tweets??? i rofl'd at this
joy	tweets	@labelladeanna whatsoever do you mean by 'how I get down' lol I'm always sober
joy	tweets	@PochaccoYoly  as long as you're okay...
joy	tweets	@jota_pe awesomeness! Phillip hasn't completely finished it but if goes up, down, left, and right
joy	tweets	@aussiecynic LOL #yourock
surprise	tweets	full day with Jasper &amp; Bonty!!! my new puppies
joy	tweets	Comment my new myspace pictures plz?
joy	tweets	Laying with lyndi on drive way. Drinking tea. Listenin to music. Takin pictures. Just a Chillin.
joy	tweets	seeing Star Trek tonight! Super stoked.
surprise	tweets	Finished with my classes, time to start my summer project. Hint: it involves a Wordpress install and what I've been tweeting about lately
surprise	tweets	@mikeplante It's already over? Damn!
surprise	tweets	it's Mothers Day today
joy	tweets	We did it last year right around the time The Black Parade is Dead! came out. Awesome times, man.
joy	tweets	Chili night in Minneapolis.  I refuse to turn the heat on in May!
joy	tweets	Movie is pretty interesting actually. Gonna finish watching it.  probably seeing star trek tomorrow. &lt;3 ZQ. lol
joy	tweets	@ff3725 She must be able to tell we're reprobates, despite your endorsement. She sounds pretty smart!
surprise	tweets	Gusying up for  dinner, Bourbon &amp; Branch, Zeitgeist and surprise party for Taylor!   Shh...
joy	tweets	is  happy  cause  my  voice  is  back  &lt;3
joy	tweets	@AdamTheStudent ISP all sorted i gather?! cheers for the bday wish too
joy	tweets	@vrooje did you see Star Trek yet?  i've seen it, twice already! i didn't like it the first time, the second time was way better!!! hahaha
joy	tweets	I'm back from my first 5K running race   And still alive!
joy	tweets	nursing my scratches and bumps from Festivus mud wrestling. I swear there's still dirt in my hair but a good time was had by all
surprise	tweets	@anamericangod that's what i was last night
joy	tweets	spring show was super fun!
joy	tweets	happy all my studying and all nighters payed off
joy	tweets	@emmielovegood Nope, I'm on my way home now.
surprise	tweets	what? you thought I did it all for mom of the year award? nope, tad bit more selfish than that:
joy	tweets	@FredaMooncotch turn on your closed caption ... Then you can read and watch animal planet at the same tiime.
joy	tweets	i'm so happy i aced my final!
joy	tweets	sittin at home watchin monster in-law waitin for pizza.. yum yum
joy	tweets	@PetiteAntoin oh that's cool   Thanks!!
joy	tweets	@mightyvanessa Hahaha, that's a cool pic that Sal made of Daniel and you. lol.
joy	tweets	@BlokesLib absolutely!  I have a &quot;his view&quot; section on my site.. I know you're busy but you are more than welcome to guest post
joy	tweets	@ceramicheart my heart sings
joy	tweets	@ncarcadio congrats on your new mac book air!
joy	tweets	Whoooooo! Spcn 2009!  ready to cheer for @Dariane!
joy	tweets	@davedays i heard one of your songs, and you have an amazing voice  i was stunned
joy	tweets	Off to dinner with @rademach &amp; his fam.
joy	tweets	It is so warm out this evening!  And I just met my new neighbors, they're so nice.
joy	tweets	@TheFifthSister LOL yeah  I forgot about your TweetDeck statuses! So funny
joy	tweets	@Krisbellmusic  yeaaa!
joy	tweets	@Sarah_LeAnn if it makes you feel better im studying on a sat night w/o blackberries
surprise	tweets	@TaylorRumsey You are welcome.
joy	tweets	Listening to Obama with one ear &amp; listening to music with the other
surprise	tweets	is noow calmmm  eating polvoron .. yuumm
joy	tweets	@brigwyn Yup, everything's there.
surprise	tweets	@HeatherShorter I love that song! I was starting to think I was the only one that knew that one!    #sameperson
joy	tweets	Anyone have an extra Keane ticket? I promise to buy you a drink and take rad pics for your FB / Blog / Flickr., etc
surprise	tweets	@MikeDavis88 Rt/WestCoastGal88@mawmaw88 - It's the facial hair, they both need to shave  [Jr and JJ]
joy	tweets	good! now i don't have to answer the question 500 times a day
joy	tweets	welcomes my nephew to the christian world.
joy	tweets	@meghan7x Happy birthday in 2 hours and 54 minuets  Haha
joy	tweets	@everyboy  give them my best!
joy	tweets	@Tam98 just looked at your page and realised it was a radio show, get them to play Call It What You Want so love that track
surprise	tweets	@KeytaJ yes'ma... for an after party too after the show next week.
joy	tweets	umm yeaa i go to like watch-movies-link.com or something like that and there pretty good quality
joy	tweets	Just downloaded twitterberry. My life is now even MORE convenient.
joy	tweets	@PinkBerryGirl Aha I see...will do
joy	tweets	fun day with boo. short but fun
joy	tweets	@CrZy4Him girl, when you crash, it may last for 2 days
joy	tweets	watchin what a girl wants with mom and brittany..
joy	tweets	cousin leon was born today
joy	tweets	Just took a shower.We're gonna go to Church.Time to thank Him for my mother.
joy	tweets	Had a good day selling at Feria Urbana. The ladies love them some laser-cut felt.
joy	tweets	Caps lost. ARGH! But HP game evening was much fun
joy	tweets	@denisev3 it was a biligual sweatshop LOL I talk 2 him once in a while but not as much, he got an r6
joy	tweets	Family guy reruns, food, and, good phone conversations  ah, saturdays.
joy	tweets	Sadness is a necessary evil in life; it gives us reason to remember and appreciate the things we lose
joy	tweets	@stephanewws Thanks for finding me!  Have a wonderful evening!
joy	tweets	@mizzlianne that's so *sweet*..
joy	tweets	who goes bowling anymore?... me and my friends
joy	tweets	Watching the Pianist with my dad great movie.
joy	tweets	@luvinjrandsmoke His beard is addressed in this week's LOLs.
joy	tweets	feels accomplished!!!  She got a lot done today! http://plurk.com/p/stns9
joy	tweets	There's just something about a sexy blonde cowgirl rubbing herself in a field  http://worldsbestpornmovies.com/faithmov3.htm
joy	tweets	I wish I knew how to play an instrument. Lessons for Menace and Missy Moo, for sure. Piano? Cello? Bass? Whatever they want
joy	tweets	this aztec mask is harder then i thought! but u kno what, i think i did a pretty good job for not being an artist
surprise	tweets	@guyswithiphones no prob, you have a sexy site there
joy	tweets	Mock AP Chemistry exam today! Then to Central Park!  Is there gonna be a AP Chem v. AP Bio tournament?!
joy	tweets	@ITTO88 dear ITTO what could possibly be THAT bad? Xo
joy	tweets	Had fun at the Airshow with the boys today - exhausted
joy	tweets	@elliottng congrats! My wife would oppose live tweeting birth too I'm sure
joy	tweets	@SherriEShepherd hey Sherri -- don't give up b/c they're married; they may have a brother or a friend!
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake wweeeeooo! snl soon
joy	tweets	@alaina_ Lmao I know!! They have two days off. Good thing for them
joy	tweets	@dazzledbydiaper Everyone, please welcome my new friend, Kari, with a warm follow, as she just set up her twitter account tonight
joy	tweets	Yummy yum-cha for mother's day with mum, dad, arcel and egg-pants  yuuuuuum  http://twitpic.com/4w65x
joy	tweets	@destroytoday hahah I'll try
joy	tweets	@TheKrewe Glad you are having a blast.
joy	tweets	@kirstiealley  Your such a riot!!    You go girl!!
joy	tweets	@claramattos yea, i should know.. but tell me EVERYTHING!  ps: send me direct messages telling..   haha
joy	tweets	getting ready to go read, pray, and go to bed. Enjoy the rest of the night
joy	tweets	watching &quot;slice of life&quot; (laughing at the songgg) and then going to sleep
joy	tweets	lvl 96 me vs a lvl 115 owned me i was useing crappy armour
joy	tweets	@FollowSavvy @FollowMandy have funnn!
joy	tweets	@YoshiTori Yeaup. I was gonna tell ya that
joy	tweets	Relaxing
joy	tweets	@Praxilla My kids count down the days till Saturday. I hope it's something they remember all of their lives!
surprise	tweets	@titanite lol happy you like it
joy	tweets	happy mothers day x &amp; go the dockers
joy	tweets	i jus love doin night shifts...will be done in an hour
joy	tweets	@LYRiCSnLiPSTiCK me me me!  lol
surprise	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w67l - Im hard core, you just dont know it.
joy	tweets	@jerrytrainor We never miss ICarly - my son has a huge crush on Miranda
joy	tweets	@iampritty Oh! Outside? Glad to see you didn't melt!!
joy	tweets	@harmonymatters Cool I'm glad.I will save some tea for you
joy	tweets	@tanahuffman Same here  Mmmm... Macrina Bakery.
surprise	tweets	@jaystokes4 lol oh ok..well n that case..thank u
surprise	tweets	@collegiate Wowzer! Deep stuff there, but CIS will probably give you more earning potential.
joy	tweets	So @jtimberlake is on SNL tonight! it's going to be a HILARIOUS
joy	tweets	just got back from hangin with the bestie at the pool, soo nice
joy	tweets	@BrokePimpStyles Yep Yep! I plan to do nothing  That is bliss to me!
joy	tweets	@ItsNeet Teehee..I know it too!
joy	tweets	Had a good end to a busy day and now I'm off to bed with a full belly of sushi
surprise	tweets	never expected to hear Beastie Boys in a Star Trek movie... was a super great flick though. *pew peww* -- (phasers)
surprise	tweets	@Java4Two TY very much for FF
joy	tweets	@cestcassie Aw, that song makes me think of girl scouts.
surprise	tweets	Yo somebody's mother just came to the club dresses like she's going straight to church after the club! I feel like I'm going to hell 4  @
joy	tweets	@jonasbrothers http://twitpic.com/3bnas - oh my god! you're adorable! ilove you so much  you are my inspiration Nick!
surprise	tweets	@Woahitssarah i believe that you are
joy	tweets	@Deejai Nice to meet you toooo  Good to know another one of my followers ACTUALLY speak!
surprise	tweets	Omg. i love my parents i juss got a lavender camera as an early birthday present!!!
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie @Hatz94Music i just want to wish your mom a happy mothers day!
joy	tweets	About to venture forth to Turkey Creek &amp; fetch the boy after his post prom festivities. Hope he had fun
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w6lf - BBQ time again.
joy	tweets	@WalkingHorse Fear not! You deserve alot, you care for animals. )) I'll get some food, don't worry!
joy	tweets	@nsharm75 thank you for reading Ohlala
joy	tweets	@savagetaylor next year will be sweeet
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's day
surprise	tweets	Ada acara menarik lain: Keys to the VIP di channel V. Ttg straight yg dikasih tasks to approach strangers in the crowd.. Hmm
joy	tweets	@MICHALL_BODUCH Awww, you will get more friends on facebook. Just be yourself and people will add you
joy	tweets	celebrating being engaged for 1 year to the handsome @aaronmbaer!
joy	tweets	@farwyde quite all right. cock sounds better than clock coming from a female anyway
joy	tweets	haciendo mi primer app con Thin + Rack + some crazy stuff...
joy	tweets	@staciemwhite Its over for them
joy	tweets	A shower feels so refreshing after a long day at the fair
joy	tweets	@ReelJPMorgan I'm tellin u. I'm pretty mean in the kitchen lolol they're yummy
joy	tweets	@eeeegads thank you
joy	tweets	my mother is drunk grrrreat.. It's okay it's mothers week
joy	tweets	@DiamondBlue hehehe!! Are you tryna find another condom  better get u for boxes cuz ima take u thru all of em
joy	tweets	@marano2288 aww, thanks babe!  you and yours have plans for tomorrow?
joy	tweets	Woo hoo party over here. Its gonna be fun
surprise	tweets	a salt pig thing coz she broke her other one! lol  do you guys even no wat a salt pig is?
surprise	tweets	@esmebella Kk, I just had 888 followers like a minute ago
joy	tweets	listening to the best days of your life by kellie pickler
joy	tweets	Yaay congrats Shmolan on graduating  I'm proud of you!! Have fun! &lt;3
joy	tweets	just got home from Tillie's dance recital. lol, it was spectacular!
joy	tweets	I'm sooo HAPPY Demi's back on twitter!
joy	tweets	@aprilcandy70  also check out @spiritjump and @hatsandhugs  2 other wonderful causes that need our help
joy	tweets	is thrilled prom went well
joy	tweets	My tweet is on cheaptweet.  You wanna vote for me  http://cheaptweet.com/t/syopvd
joy	tweets	finally get my hands on my laptop!  just ate the biggest burrito de asada EVER  and now im gonna get ready for the party-ooo!
joy	tweets	@twtboxdj  Thanks Mr. DJ!
joy	tweets	Hanging with my cousin Jimmy then hopefully hanging with my friend
joy	tweets	I had a great date last night...tried to find the CDCaves with Daniel  it was HILARIOUSLY FUN!!!
joy	tweets	@fureousangel that is comedy  good luck my friend!
joy	tweets	stephs grad party gr8! shoved cake in her face, watchd sis bitch slap a boy, ate good food  satisfied
joy	tweets	@jesfive SWEEEEET - San Fran is awesome!!!!  Love it there
joy	tweets	@bunnydrumming Hi bunny! I recently have subcribed to your channel on YouTube! You make some great stuff. Kinda just wanted to say hi!
surprise	tweets	@brucehoult oh really? why HELLO there
joy	tweets	I'm likable after all HAHAHAHAHAHAHA! Still over the moon
joy	tweets	@JulieAbel I am in Weirton Julie, way up North at the tippy top! LOL we don't think southern WV folks like us too much.
joy	tweets	awww i bought my mom the cutest things for mothers day  woop woop mee expert shoper
joy	tweets	@ddlovato hi ya demi! im glad ur back   http://twitpic.com/4vuuy i personally love the picture! haha
joy	tweets	Finally home sweet home
joy	tweets	the last song all american rejects.......... an amazing song
joy	tweets	@Linz__marie lol..french toast sticks too!
joy	tweets	@ppittman you are not old!!! You're  just comfy! Like worn in sweats! Said with all the love my sarcastic heart can muster....
joy	tweets	at the farm not enjoying cary ann, but loving the company!
joy	tweets	goin out wit shina &amp; gigi . moviez
joy	tweets	@AnnCurry those photos are lovely! Who knew you were as talented a photographer as you are a journalist!
joy	tweets	@shadrach I'm just following you because we're both wearing Converse
joy	tweets	@shakeitblueyes good
joy	tweets	Massive morning.. I'm stuffed now
joy	tweets	@rsxy ive been spending time w/my momma! we're celebrating mother's day for her early  ive been good! how was woodburn?
joy	tweets	I'm ACTUALLY on Skype but ssshh don't tell anyone.
joy	tweets	Downing a glass of ginger ale and then relishing an early evening in bed with &quot;Because I Said So&quot; on Lifetime.
joy	tweets	Yeah, I think we've earned it!
surprise	tweets	Chillin out at home enjoying my new house... I must say I love it!!!  Hope your all having a great day!!!
joy	tweets	The Eagles make saturday nights so much better.
surprise	tweets	So the movie was 3-D and really gooood
surprise	tweets	says good morning everyone! Once again, a happy mother's day to all the mothers out there!  I hope you all h... http://plurk.com/p/stq3f
surprise	tweets	@musicdotcom model on a pink motorcycle
joy	tweets	@GregCarter I hear ya. You'll have to go back to work to rest.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w7d2 bwahahahahahaha I am so awesome
joy	tweets	@GericaQuinn Yay  I Feel Loved  By You And My 113 Creepy Followers.
surprise	tweets	Wedding..
joy	tweets	MY SiSTER iN LAW JUST LEFT FOR HER PROM!! SHE LOOKED SOO PRETTY.. TEARS ALL AROUND
joy	tweets	Chillin at a bbq gettin my drink on
joy	tweets	at the taste a addison w/ her fav. ppl
joy	tweets	@akoyamiazaki #steel toe boots - Good to hear that you're comfy. Hopefully they are Kodiak or Terra brand
joy	tweets	LMAO Twitting... thats never gonna get old haha!
joy	tweets	@bunnymousekitt hahaha, yes, our discussions always seem to jump around randomly
joy	tweets	OH EMM GEE!! QUEBEC IN 16 DAYS. I AM SO EXCITED.
joy	tweets	@teemwilliams Michelle, @tamronhall is on here. Don't u miss her being on Fox? I liked your interviews with her.
joy	tweets	@xstaylor LOL!  Considering the recent debate on DL, I'm not touching the bad boy thing.  I like the logical ones.
joy	tweets	@JoyofZen haha. so you are actually doing some cleaning! good actual work!
joy	tweets	@heidimontag my saturday was good  i cannot wait until this monday night
joy	tweets	@aprilyim @nesarajah he's hard to please, methinks he has the picture in his head just fine
joy	tweets	Got some beautiful flowers and a mag subscription for Mother's Day  Spoilt! &lt;3
joy	tweets	@isabellacane Thanks! I was gonna make a joke and say they look just like mine!
joy	tweets	@ihatecrayons http://twitpic.com/4w75p - I like it!!
joy	tweets	I have lived through our band's first performance, and it was pretty damn fun.
joy	tweets	is tired but happy the orphanage was wow.. and babysitting was really fun
joy	tweets	is off to Tagaytay with the family! Happy Mum's Day to all you hot momma's
joy	tweets	Watching water boy  about to grub on some carnisada. Yum,Yum!!
joy	tweets	@car4dave lol thanks!
joy	tweets	tired as hell!!!! bed time from cara  nighty night twitter world..
joy	tweets	Watching superbad with brit
joy	tweets	@davekennedy Wow, you might be countering the Benedryl with your enthusiasm.
joy	tweets	@limheeian iPhone is awesome man!! Time to join the Apple cult!!
joy	tweets	on my way homee  i love long car rides&lt;3
joy	tweets	Did anyone go photographing today? I managed to get a few macro shots of some flowers that were blooming
joy	tweets	@sparrowstudio They turned out great! And I had a killer workout before-hand so no guilt
joy	tweets	Operation Mischevious (Pinwheel) to commence in 25 min... lol  waiting on Ed to show up
joy	tweets	@miizronnie aha speaking German  haha maybe i should send some stuff in Italian ;)
joy	tweets	right n0w, im on my bed  egotastic r0cks!hahaha..
joy	tweets	@davedays GAH! I got some of your songs off itunes  I'm so happy! They're SO AWESOME!!! keep it up!
surprise	tweets	@TasteMyInk most likelyy. Just need to save the money and practice my ass off.
joy	tweets	flashlight tag!  i love playing games in the dark.
joy	tweets	relaxing...enjoying the evening
joy	tweets	just got done washing dishes not too long ago
joy	tweets	I got the new Silverstein CD. aha. Its AMAZING.  I highly recomend it.
surprise	tweets	OOOH,  i have a question for you all. DOES YOUR CHAIN HANG LOW?  idk! sorry!
surprise	tweets	NGH episode 28 is out! check it out!
joy	tweets	@Hey_B @Cabbrock thank goodness!!
joy	tweets	Just finished with a little booty duty  that was a work out. Now I'm hungry. .
joy	tweets	@JaySodmg heyy jay, wat's going on witcha ? &amp; do you want a twitter background ? you already know i gotcha if you need anything.
joy	tweets	im thinking that im going to have fun tonight....and maybe some changes are coming
joy	tweets	@MishaSaysRawr i'm totally gonna have money to actually buy a pair of shoes this time
joy	tweets	@SeanScottPotter I'm watching girl movies all night! Great night for movie night
joy	tweets	@lunaliu  You are such a positive thinker, I am for sure keeping you around!
surprise	tweets	@lalalalexi read it! lucky, why are you getting a new phone?
surprise	tweets	@DAWIIZME lmao!!! ummm duh gurl I need to buy me some more v-necks I like em!!!
joy	tweets	Just got off the phone with garrett.  still cleaning my room. It s raining  that makes me feel better
joy	tweets	@seetiggerbounce White House Correspondents Dinner, funny stuff for political junkies. #whcd   I'm a recovering addict.
joy	tweets	@LauraJames3 I crochet Laura. Simple stitches...I can make a mean afgan!
joy	tweets	@TheeRealFDHC Ahhh I can only imagine what you're looking at!! So luckyyy. Hope your having fun.
joy	tweets	on the phone w. Chantellie ! &lt;3
joy	tweets	@acummings I am ecstatic client can do a deed in lieu of ...so Monday I will take my sign &amp; lockbox off happy another satisfied client
joy	tweets	@tadasauce Have a good time
joy	tweets	this song called stolen, it soooo amazing!! it by Dashboard Confessional
joy	tweets	@janae24 LOL! Let's find something quickly.
joy	tweets	I gave a homeless lady named Ruby an Ice Cream sandwich and a cigarette.  That is my g00d deed for the day. :p
surprise	tweets	- going somewhat out of town? (x visitng uncle boyet &amp; famm!
joy	tweets	Chilling feeling really nice..
joy	tweets	@idann, now that sounds better
joy	tweets	@Strabismus You are too kind! I swear I'm always feeding someone!
joy	tweets	i forgot how much i love all these songs on my itunes. i love shuffle  and i love watching the pranks from AP Tour!
joy	tweets	@LiveInLove10 YES!!! haahaaa.! break out the jellybeaniesss!
joy	tweets	@rvagirl Oh I believe you...   sooo @RebeccaNavarro thinks she belongs elsewhere, I say I dont think so...
joy	tweets	Selling my laptop for CHEAP if anyone's interested!  17&quot; Toshiba 1.3gig ram
joy	tweets	Watching the CAVS!!!!!
joy	tweets	FTSK and Mercy Mercedes were amazing tonight.. as always
joy	tweets	@mahamimo Thank you! Your makeup art is top-notch, come to my house every morning! ha ha
joy	tweets	Thank you, Afrin Nasal Spray! Also, I got a giant teacup tonight!
joy	tweets	just got home after an hour at the track, I feel real good now =P running is nice  and abs work and push ups haha =P
joy	tweets	@mynewgroove I said I wouldn't drink tonight, but I say this as I drink this Sam Adams
joy	tweets	@spiderdj82 thank you. yes yes. hooray!
joy	tweets	soooo sleepy.  but gotta finish this game.  lol. gettt it cavs!  whoop whoop
joy	tweets	@followfrankie it was jokes!!!  me love the mag..really!
joy	tweets	had fun at chel's with nicole and cried watching benjamin button   exciting night i must say
joy	tweets	@KeepinUpWKris  Have a Happy Mothers Day! I thought u had blocked me cause i couldn't get anything thru the other day
joy	tweets	Star Trek was GREAT yet minor details needed to be worked out, but I give it a Thumbs Up, regardless!
joy	tweets	@eliasharrak ummm, come on, for me twins and slurpees, and being in a car with the twins is going to be pretty epic!!!
surprise	tweets	Its beautiful outside. I wish i was in new york city. But this area is pretty cool. Hip and trendy.
joy	tweets	Having fun with all my dolls  tequillla...carne asada....and my mom dancing funny!
surprise	tweets	Kyle going to the garage. His night is done. Think we'll get an interview?  #NASCAR
joy	tweets	Averaged $31 per hour at work today! Gotta love holidays
joy	tweets	listening to @hardqueen after last nights Up from the Underground screening, awesome job @latapia
joy	tweets	@scenexxqueen haha. welcome to my world. we fail together.
surprise	tweets	@MarcusG704 why are you surprised?
surprise	tweets	Kudai a Pop Rock band from Chile is the last one taking the stage tonight.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w855 Operation Happy Mom a success!
joy	tweets	@officialjosephj Hahhaa okaay ily! Lmfao
surprise	tweets	@andcristina OHH. haha ok thanks
surprise	tweets	@TeeMonster The Case of the Gigolo's Picolo?
joy	tweets	Finally going to bed! Woo-Hoo! Gotta work at 5am! Lots of love to all!
joy	tweets	took 8 trips to basement to move books from my room - i have a floor again
joy	tweets	Reading, cryin, reading, laughin...  Enjoying the ride while being enlightened and inspired by letters to a young sister!!  Thx Hill.
surprise	tweets	Just saw Zack and Miri Make a Porno with @marissamariposa and @mlewicki . sooo good.
joy	tweets	About to pik out my hair, braid it up, scrub off my make up and relaxxxx.... tonight was fun
joy	tweets	@CHRIS_Daughtry You should come play in the college town of Eau Claire, WI.  Seriously, you'd have TONS of people turn out for it.
joy	tweets	loven the rs ftw pvp is bac
joy	tweets	@shygamer @Zeralyn I told ya'll I am a good girl. You can see my halo and everything
joy	tweets	I love these App things, it be hella awesome bro.
joy	tweets	relaxing night at home with best people
joy	tweets	@garrettmurray Same here!  I just wanted it to keep going and not end... ever! ;)
joy	tweets	@cldoug Jana laughed when I told her about the anniversary tweet.
joy	tweets	Played some Mythic Brawl in order to get a good screenshot. Instead, I got a Perfection!
joy	tweets	Gonna see the cab twice!  In August, I'm taking my friend Jess to the Vegas one for her bday!
joy	tweets	is cute
joy	tweets	My goal is to be in bed by 2am
joy	tweets	is home  i love traveling, but there is nothing like coming home!
joy	tweets	FIFTH RUNNER UP  at keg with @kirsten95 , @devonshire94 , hannah, darian, fiona, &amp; phillipa
surprise	tweets	@JanetRoper  Indeed. Maybe somebody needs a new cat.
joy	tweets	@MckMama  This has made my night!!  Way too funny!!
joy	tweets	@bencredible hopefully the weather has been nice/cooperating
joy	tweets	Goood Moring
joy	tweets	Women in Science &amp; Technology conference in La Jolla - what an interesting day!  Met some really great people!
surprise	tweets	@sfoak I would LOVE to be the dark princess of the PCI evil empire.... oh wait! That would make me an auditor again!
joy	tweets	@DomSoFresh bl MUTHAFUCKIN ah!  I win!
surprise	tweets	@sup_ashley OH REALLY?!
joy	tweets	I feel like dressing up for the heck of it.&amp; putting make up on. Haha
joy	tweets	Search Ryan Carera &amp; Josh Kelley  They're really good
surprise	tweets	playing board games!!!
joy	tweets	Hellerrr new followerss. I'm Tricina &amp; uhhm I'm cool
surprise	tweets	i loudly said something &amp; my coworker replied &quot;i dont know brian klemm! But even I love brian klemm!&quot;  ( @Klemm_0_Tronic )
joy	tweets	Great motorcycle ride along Hood Canal and through Gig Harbor today. Not to warm, great sunshine, stunning day
joy	tweets	I'm really excited that I'm a Queen Bee on the Power Mom 50 List  I feel really REALLY honored. #nielsenpowermoms
joy	tweets	@carljohnston
surprise	tweets	@amandabynes will u give ur mother anything special? I'll make a cake and make sure mine gets a stressfree day =p cheesy, but it works
joy	tweets	Reached Bangalore!! Now gotta hunt for rooms
joy	tweets	@shmeezie thanks for having me! i had a great time too
joy	tweets	@r_city tell brandon I said hi!!
joy	tweets	baseball games whoo hooo  when to banquet yesterday at the hyhtt sooo fun
surprise	tweets	Christa's Mothers Day card, deep in the build phase.   - Photo: http://bkite.com/07k6e
surprise	tweets	Woah! 311 is really good!! The rain earlier was rather nice
joy	tweets	Watching Groove the movie with @mikecase my hubby!
joy	tweets	@james_stjohn That's what we hope for!
joy	tweets	so who is in for bring at HK lounge tomorrow ? $12 all you can drink till 5pm... then kareoke. I think it will be a nice Sunday!
surprise	tweets	@girlonlaptop haha. not sure what local is to you, but if i was then you'd have to fight me for it!
joy	tweets	Top cashier at work today! woot woot! now off to have a drink...
surprise	tweets	@AmbDuckett should be me
joy	tweets	a chilled day  party tomorrow.
joy	tweets	@TheAsterik BETTER BE. ALSO, YES. UNF UNF &lt;3 ...Lisa still hasn't gotten any, btw  *smacked*
disgust	tweets	Nothing to do. Just sitting here. I can see Mrs. P and her husband
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w8kr - meet Bella the new member of the family!!
joy	tweets	It's official - Liberty Grand is my new fave reception venue... Will blog some shots Tuesday
joy	tweets	@hiimlianaa haha yea &quot;help&quot; (technically itz called cheating but my teacher helps us anyways so im not cheating)
surprise	tweets	@liesforliars what about Midge? She definitely has to be in on that tie for first. She's completely dumb  and yeah, punk'd indeed
surprise	tweets	Thinking my drink is watered down but hey its free
joy	tweets	Watching Sex &amp; The City at my brothers soccer game. I have totally defited the purpose of coming.. Hehe
joy	tweets	@JackAllTimeLow Im glad you're a lot happier barakitten  &lt;3 see yah in july
joy	tweets	@SHCollectibles Aww Thanks!    Glad I appreciated the weather so much yesterday!
joy	tweets	HAHAH, Did I hear MVP Chants in Atlanta's Arena?  At least they get it right there, unlike at staples
joy	tweets	@jerennyofficial Hahah JONAS in 10 min!! woop woop! it was fun me and Doug had a 2 cmmt convo. it was magical hahaha
joy	tweets	@jackalltimelow lucky! that's awesome
joy	tweets	A long day with the family.   I'm so tired now.  Had fun!
joy	tweets	Come on Kirk, hook up your Wii to the wifi....you can do eeet!
joy	tweets	It's good to be home
joy	tweets	@opinionatedant Have a great weekend Mononoke  I may be tweeting from inside the movie theater either Monday or Tuesday  lol
joy	tweets	Finally making some headway in the family room!  Home is finally begining to look like it!  btw dial up can go die!
joy	tweets	waking up at 6 am? yuuup. still going out tonight? you better believe it.
joy	tweets	And, I'm accumulating money again, so I can use a fancy finance app. Thinking of getting another CD or an IRA.  saving for a house. crazy!
joy	tweets	havin friends over hangin out with christian tonight!!  gonna roast marshmellows and chocolate and cramcrackers.!?!?!
joy	tweets	winding down, love having a low key day.
joy	tweets	Partied long and hard...goodnight Twitter see ya in the mornin
joy	tweets	@bluecrystaldude happy attending kenduri.. eat those yummy stuffs on my behalf ya.
joy	tweets	I'm one of them... Just got off phone w/ chanel   I told he  to tell u ur a brat for the temptation... Which I couldn't pass up! Thanks!
joy	tweets	@starryeyedsoul Meeeee! It sounds delicious
joy	tweets	@sayitwithecards Thanks for the #followfriday!
joy	tweets	I hope they re-run this nerdprom later-  sounds like they're having LOTS of fun.  Thanks all for the play-by-play
joy	tweets	Getting my hair done bout to hit the club ....... Ha see u later ....... Smooches
joy	tweets	Mom, happy mother's day  love you. Thanks for everything. I'm sorry for being such a spoilt brat all the whiles. You are my HERO!
joy	tweets	@shootingstarmzx yup Florin cat foo sho, don't worry about the whole pix thing, I'm a sexy piece of caucasian sensation  lol
joy	tweets	The time Is 3.50am and if finished my essay  I can have Sunday off  woop
joy	tweets	Just watched another episode of JONAS. Is it better than Hannah Montana? Very much true!
joy	tweets	Starting out @chuckreynolds bday bash with a Blue Moon  - Photo: http://bkite.com/07k6X
joy	tweets	having a bath with epsom salts and listening to carrie underwood
joy	tweets	@russiandiva  Tat, You looks beautiful and are a heck of a mama and business woman.   Dana
joy	tweets	@assos Eh, it's alright - nowhere near the same quality as a standard keyboard, but still useful!
joy	tweets	lifes been sweet ever since thursday    im totally livin the life right now
joy	tweets	@dpbkmb Thank you for FF
joy	tweets	Get on a plane! Come drink my Cristal with me
surprise	tweets	rain, rain, rain. wow i actually LOVE the rain....
joy	tweets	See No Evil starring WWE wrestler Kane. You should watch it
joy	tweets	@Afish0410 awwww jim jam  we're good at dodging meatballs WOO
joy	tweets	The Black Canyon seriously have the BEST fusion food around
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's day mang!!! thank you and i love you
joy	tweets	McDonalds in the car.  http://tinyurl.com/onoger
joy	tweets	party in the beach
joy	tweets	@xxLOVExxPEACE yes  and i want you to keep going if you would ;)
joy	tweets	@aprilllllx hey girlie!!!
joy	tweets	@jazzii3phiizzl3 oh mm gee we got aerolas in the live tonite
joy	tweets	oo. and studied today outside after having a ben+jerry's.. wearing a sundress, hopefully didn't get an awkward tan line.. haha!
joy	tweets	@budceiling Sorry.  I'm a squirrellist, and I only talk to black or sliver squirrels.
surprise	tweets	my favourite song tonight is cheer it on by Tokyo Police Club
joy	tweets	it sleepy time  [&lt;cody&gt;]
joy	tweets	@etherjammer  I think it's because I'm always offtopic and sometimes inappropriate (germination and &quot;fruit picking&quot; jokes, etc)
joy	tweets	@onti1 have fun tonight
joy	tweets	@SmBizGuru You are very welcome. You deserve #followfriday every day!
joy	tweets	@tommyreyes OHHH my bad! yes him  heh heh
joy	tweets	@StorySeeker lol...but they aren't here! I'll tell them to do that Monday. lol
joy	tweets	@davorado Bet she plays on Medium and you play on easy too huh...  #iPhone #Fun #Game
joy	tweets	@actionchick  YAY! I love new ppl! WOOOOO!!
surprise	tweets	Dinner and A Movie with the Hubby
surprise	tweets	@heytheredeahna NO WAY! i didn't know he was singing ROF thats without a doubt my fave he has done on idol thus far!! EEP~fangirl moment
joy	tweets	im officially done with school til fall.
joy	tweets	i have twitter, sooo i'm pretty damn cool now
joy	tweets	@Lawrence_n_DC amendment 4.5: the right to be big pimpin? Because gotta say, a positive right at best. Man, 2nd time tonight w/ this thrd
joy	tweets	As a reward for getting so much done yesterday, I'm playing World of Warcraft today. Yay!
joy	tweets	@christian792 LOL we're such twitter addicts
joy	tweets	just woke up from a delightful nap. I can't desribe how much success is involved in an 8am nap on sat night....need rhubarb now
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	Get to see and hopefully meet these guys next week at ROTR!! Can NOT wait!!!  Adelitas Way - Invincible ? http://blip.fm/~5ynxr
joy	tweets	On my macbook  Inviting Friend to Twitter  and Happy Mothers Day
joy	tweets	@hobbz You really think it was that awesome? We'll have to discuss
joy	tweets	@SweetIsa it was a crazy time, nothing to be ashamed of that you were timid. you were osocute in your bashfulness
joy	tweets	@cassowaryjewel Excellent point.
surprise	tweets	@1027KIISFM REALLY?  COOL!
joy	tweets	yeah! i made a drawing today and now im getting flooded with requests for portraits for people
joy	tweets	Welcoming cimmarongirl  I'm so proud!
joy	tweets	Ushers: You guys made Mother's Day really awesome today! Thanks for coming in early to prep the surprise gifts for all our moms!!
joy	tweets	@Postlemonkey Oh, awesome, I have Yahooo!  Good night, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite!
surprise	tweets	Dakota just had a her first bath since being spayed... She was in Heaven!
joy	tweets	@glossymom yeah i am getting to that point. Need a new phone anyway so its gonna happen real soon!!
joy	tweets	@taylorswift13 Mine too! Hayley is great
joy	tweets	@MariahCarey can your 500 hrs of beautey school fix that?  haha
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w9ce - my future car ! I love it !
joy	tweets	@justinsxe woot, woot! super cool
joy	tweets	@CherryBlossoms4 YEYYYY MADDY IS FABULOUSSSSSS GOD BLESS HER
joy	tweets	just got home from work. ready for chill time  shoot me a PM. aim: pillowtalk6188
joy	tweets	Had a ton of fun w muffin today
joy	tweets	Bleah a tad tipsy and too many cup cakes. Maddies birthday tomorrow + family party
joy	tweets	@AimeeLady The girls there last night would have let her! And I figure the boys would have enjoyed watching...
joy	tweets	Is it possible to pass out he your laying down? Bed soon if i can sleep &lt;3
joy	tweets	With my jordie for a little bit
joy	tweets	Just saw the new Star Trek movie. It was so good!! Zachary Quinto is amazingggg
surprise	tweets	Star Trek was actually really good
joy	tweets	Made breakfast for bf; went to sears to pass my drivers test! stayed with minh for a lil, sauna&amp;spa with aunt, uncle &amp; mom; FINALLY HOME
joy	tweets	@heffabella i dont know u but heeeeeeey  my name is shannn *extends hand* put er there. where u from?
joy	tweets	@bumblebeex0 yeah the freedom is awesome, it's great being a little more independent
joy	tweets	DW, that was funny
joy	tweets	its funny how people can forget their anger with the arrival of other people they least expect to see
joy	tweets	getting ready for the concert tonight! YAY!
joy	tweets	@Kicesie or elope  I can't wait to see the pictures of you in the dress. It will be breath taking
surprise	tweets	first night in myers. just not the same w/out lydia!  but i'm actually excited about this summer!
joy	tweets	animating an ad for work. One of my favorite things to do. So much so that I'm doing it on a saturday night for fun!
joy	tweets	Bass drum heads breaking equals bust. Who needs tickets for May 15th? You?
joy	tweets	&quot;It's not rape if you scream surprise first.&quot; - my customer just said to me. Haha.  (via @OMGitsJessieLee)LMAO
joy	tweets	just got back from six flags  wicked fun. even tho i almost died!
joy	tweets	@musiclove18 haha thanks  its for history and its on how the invention of television has influence america lol
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight BTW I STILL can't believe how Awesome the NEWJABBAKIDZ performance was...U in the masks..I screamed at my pc
surprise	tweets	I just saw a shooting star... I made my wish
joy	tweets	@AimeeLady Lol... She is fine the way she is  How has your weekend been?
joy	tweets	just finished YSC runthrough for service! It's gonna be awesome!  - http://tweet.sg
joy	tweets	anyone excited for harry potter like i am. damn twilight postponed my first love   oh well off to find some hai chai
joy	tweets	@chaotic_barb I'm totally with ya.  I blocked the negative from my stream
joy	tweets	@SairzBillington lol, thanks  I think my husband would classify it as &quot;annoying&quot; - but I like awesome so much better
joy	tweets	@GericaQuinn lmao haha nice lolz it's all good though. i can wait  lol
joy	tweets	@LoveLinds HEY THAT'S SOMETHING I'D DO!
joy	tweets	good morning everbody!
joy	tweets	after prom party tonight
joy	tweets	you are so right! @Adrianmw1
joy	tweets	good night! im off to sleeep!!!! 5 am  good mornining! xD
joy	tweets	@DianaRay1 I KNOW I'm so excited for them!
joy	tweets	BYEEEEE!!!
surprise	tweets	@amandapalmer missed interview on NPR, ironic because listened to NPR all day on long fucking car trip, watching Needle now, looks good
joy	tweets	*PEN JAM CLEARED* CLICK!
joy	tweets	Just reached my Cellgroup leader's house and he is surprised that I'm dry. Haha.  - http://tweet.sg
joy	tweets	Yay! Made it home. Feels great to be back and it's still light out.
joy	tweets	The food here looks amazing! Our dessert is Frozen Grand Marnier Souffle, of course we have to eat @ the bar
joy	tweets	@stevetilley it was a lonely battle, my friend, but you fought valiantly!
joy	tweets	just got back from greenlake.  it was such a nice day today!
surprise	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg BTW I STILL can't believe how Awesome the NEWJABBAKIDZ performance was...U in the masks..I screamed at my pc
surprise	tweets	@xmainer1 heading over to xbox  will go shopping 2morrow
joy	tweets	THANKS GUYS! 200 FOLLOWERS
joy	tweets	@inflight1  we get so bored with routine.. lol!
joy	tweets	after some pizzas, going sleep
joy	tweets	Spongebob sing a long. Amandas mom gave me and crystal jonas brothers calendars
joy	tweets	I don't care about netsexor cams or the route to heaven, however, #lobster sounds super good.  I'm almost tempted to go get some.
joy	tweets	@plsdontgogurl That's the one. I wish I have a video compilation of @jordanknight's thrusting
joy	tweets	@LiveCrunch haha  Thanks!
joy	tweets	walking home listening to music and singing to myself. :d Six feet under the stars
surprise	tweets	Oops!  My mom accidentally signed into my twitter account to comment on my pictures!
joy	tweets	@charmainelhs then you must insist you write essays the twitter way - no more than 140 characters
joy	tweets	on the north im BOOMIN!!!.. lol.. fucc the club dog i rather count a million buccz!!!..  ..THEY CALL ME STARBUCCZ BITCH!!!..
joy	tweets	Writing and researching. Tired of being foolish, so I'm educating myself &amp; moving forward. Gonna marry a white boy they do you right!!!
joy	tweets	Go Canada they made Nikkie Payne #1 comic well she is soo yeah but she is only funny to pervs or teens or people in my family
joy	tweets	finally made it to phoenix!  I am home.
joy	tweets	@lar206 just saw a baby blue regal with the word &quot;SLAB&quot; written in huge letters on the side  hahaaaa
joy	tweets	@RussellMoyer olawd go see it, its priceless  soooo funny
disgust	tweets	@jodimariethomas hey Jodi.. what's up??ugg.. im bored.. i just made a sundae.. c u monday.. ( hahaha it rymed...) loll. cu in school
joy	tweets	D-Lab on MIT Open courseware http://is.gd/ygt5 There goes my chances of getting any work done in the next few weeks
joy	tweets	Dinner with Gma and the big sis by the water!  yummmmmm
joy	tweets	Is waiting for Foreigner start
joy	tweets	@SaraBareilles That's a great point... but I'm not shitting in ANY! woods, Sara... you should know better.  Haha
joy	tweets	I would love to sleep with pete Lmfao   jk
joy	tweets	Make sure your mom knows you love her
joy	tweets	hey guys = ) i went to Jenny's house today!! i had so much fun    so how about everyone else? what did u guys doo?
surprise	tweets	@richdeclue that's what she said?
joy	tweets	@KeepinUpWKris hope you have a great day tomorrow!!  happy mothers day!  let us know what you did
surprise	tweets	@elliottyamin your new song is AMAZING
joy	tweets	holy smokes! star trek was freaking awesomeeeee
joy	tweets	@geramie yeah I was thinking about that ,ahaha
joy	tweets	Been Mother Day shopping....wow...big thanks to my sister for coming with me. Sorry about getting you drunk though
surprise	tweets	got back from the party...suprisingly awesome, NEED to dance more often! overall, awesome night
joy	tweets	@BarackObama i heart you
joy	tweets	With @MOBARZHARLEM walking the streets of Harlem. Home sweet home
joy	tweets	@omgdarleny hahaa your awesomee !
joy	tweets	@TheYotesDiva Yep, I tolerate nothing in the facebook group
joy	tweets	News of the Wierd is so entertaining
joy	tweets	feeling like in 16 again - watching TWILIGHT &amp; enjoying it
joy	tweets	I'm so proud of my NAU graduate friend!!! We're getting ready to celebrate  tonight!!! It'll be an international ordeal~
surprise	tweets	@BillohBill WTF!!!!  LMAO!!! *Just got hit in the head with bloody balls*
joy	tweets	@ MGM grand, mraz on stage! No doubling back opener.  lots of old memories flooding back
joy	tweets	have a good day  @tuanyia @mirandaspazz @augustblossom @amoremotore ? http://blip.fm/~5yomt
joy	tweets	Finally at home
joy	tweets	@capemaybooks alright don't want you to overdue it now. LOL you are funny  nite nite
joy	tweets	@mikegentile http://twitpic.com/4l85a - best kind of gum ever! I just bought a pack
joy	tweets	just got home from the show opening.  fantastic. thanks to everyone who came out
joy	tweets	Helping with &quot;kiddie church&quot; tomorrow! Yay little guys!!
joy	tweets	has enjoyed her first day of summer
joy	tweets	@BigGuitarStore I'll drink to that  #shotdrinksaturday
joy	tweets	@George_Mounce yes and it lasts way past my bedtime!
joy	tweets	@SecretVampire:  nice to see you on twitter!
joy	tweets	@loyaleagle good catch!  Thanks a bunch- have to put up a new widget.
joy	tweets	Had tons of fun, yay!!  On to after prom for lots more fun, horayyyayayay
joy	tweets	Wishing a Happy Mothers Day to all the wonderful Mothers out there.
joy	tweets	@MarvetBritto Awesome! that's how I wanna roll when I become mogul status
joy	tweets	my new phrase is 'you never doubt mo williams'   six game win streak!
joy	tweets	..my mother just WON the City of Terrell, Texas District 2 'City Council' Seat  ..i'm M.i.A lol HAPPY MOTHERS DAY
surprise	tweets	But I am on pg 145 of 165, so I'm getting close!  *yawn*
joy	tweets	@xXmIxEdMoDeLXx im in schaumburg rite now ... and u want ice cream lol its type chilly outside lol i got ice cream here
joy	tweets	mrskutcher &amp; aplusk you two are to funny!
joy	tweets	@DanSherwood lannen fall?    we have a new EP coming out shortly.  I want you dudes to hear it!
joy	tweets	@nyisles if you like those cookies, you are going to LOVE my cookies   Lars Tetens cookies that is. You coming to see us on 5/16?
joy	tweets	just got back from my grandparents suprise 60th anniversary party...it was sooooo much fun!!!
surprise	tweets	I dont care what kind of graphics or engines video games have nowadays. They are nothing compared to The Oregon Trail and Carmen Sandiego
joy	tweets	11:10pm on a Saturday... you know what that means! BEDTIME!
joy	tweets	had a very good day and is now going to get into bed!
joy	tweets	Updated blog. Shows You Should Be Watching: The Unusuals http://digg.com/u12w7c Go check it out
disgust	tweets	should probably do some house work  for my mummy think id better. would cook dinner but im a shit cook lol xx
joy	tweets	haha i just watch a funny ass video on youtube  made my day
surprise	tweets	@OregonMJW Why can't you? Are you rooting for Ali in the Twitter war?
surprise	tweets	@etniqminerals it shocked D &amp; I, too!  Puts things in a whole new, empowering, light... now doesn't it?
joy	tweets	@StickySoyChai well that propels people to change direction. No point wasting your days on something you lost the passion for.
joy	tweets	I'm learning the guitar very quickly. It's coming naturally
joy	tweets	Going to church in the morning...happy mommas day almost
surprise	tweets	great party alenka!!  happy birthday chicky! &lt;3
joy	tweets	http://yfrog.com/0guyoj bonfires are my fave!
joy	tweets	@moonfrye I thought I was the only one with the tags on the outside of my shirt
joy	tweets	I know my sunshine did wonderful today  I had an alright day! Text me twitterers.
joy	tweets	@ExocetAU i always have those for my Champions League parties  Tis awesome
joy	tweets	Its 11:11  make a wish
joy	tweets	got back from visiting relatives...time to watch a movie
joy	tweets	Grilled chicken, broccolli, and water.  Yummy and healthy. Well until I put butter on my veggies but whatever
joy	tweets	@mikeyway http://twitpic.com/4vw9a - I'm not gonna buy one...nor two... But three! I will be the ultimate slaughter machine!
joy	tweets	@aoibhe   well, I couldn't get a real clear shot, but I've got the best I could...silly people walking through the admitting of the ER...
joy	tweets	@johncmayer What does it matter? We ALL love you.  Take your pick. HA!
joy	tweets	@heyitscheryl ooh like what? I'm planning on spending the night in as well
joy	tweets	watchin family guy
joy	tweets	@ginaturner i'm fake. . Is that the same?   ~K~
joy	tweets	(L) ice grande half-sweet French vanilla soy milk from Starbucks means summaa's coming !!!
joy	tweets	@KarlaaM_ A blouse! ahahaha I gave her money and she went to get it!  Where's your mom??
joy	tweets	@natashayi between the Garlic Pills, the Spider bite between your toe (LOL-Classic) and you always being hungry. U are killing me 2 funny
joy	tweets	Thanks to @ksatnews and @doublepunching for the updates on tonight votes.
joy	tweets	ellen degeneres and mcfly fans!  i say we try to get mcfly on the ellen show..how about it?
joy	tweets	@bumblebeex0 awesome! maybe someday I'll find a book of yours on the bestsellers list? lol
joy	tweets	over him  finally
joy	tweets	I had an amazing night with my friends!!!  now I am losing my voice!
joy	tweets	@sweetdee15 Your peanut butter soup was amazing and so was everything else!  Your soup was just a higher form of amazing
joy	tweets	@tuffyr that is cute, a manly cute of course.  reminds me of a Scion
surprise	tweets	@Dovidul2 really? Awesome!
surprise	tweets	Listening to Metal Shop at Mooneys!! All is good
joy	tweets	happy mother's day
joy	tweets	@chickieleighc That was nice. I Just ordered my mom her gift from me and my sister.   Something different and unexpected.
joy	tweets	@victoriabsb That sucks! Eat a Burrito!  They're way to fun! Hey check this out: http://backstreetpride.net/teamburritocontest.html
joy	tweets	I've got jam! Oh yea.
surprise	tweets	@alane01 that couldn't be more true! I like ur momma's style!
joy	tweets	perfect night in nj.
surprise	tweets	ROFL - me too.
joy	tweets	@baloneyFACE probably the coooolest thing we've ever done
surprise	tweets	@odrisck anything  bookmark - keychain - surprise me
joy	tweets	@BeDimples Lmao dimples naww thats cute , ok ill try to remember first of winter is dimple day
surprise	tweets	So theres this boy. Hes so cute. Hes got a six pack.  yum it was fun touchin it.
joy	tweets	Smoking Maryjane is my favorite thing to do  speaking of ima name my daughter Maryjane Lakoda. Lakoda is mrijuana is latin&lt;3
joy	tweets	@iamglennie how fun!  Invite her to the hhs group
joy	tweets	@emma_daarling haha yah it's walking distance from my house  Mission Tiki Drive-In haha every summer we go like every weekend
joy	tweets	FREE FREE FREE- just a pesky registration but after that  ENJOY http://bit.ly/rlQGu
joy	tweets	Im eating a salad  and rember to comment my new myspace pictures plz?
joy	tweets	listening to the falling rain...lalala
joy	tweets	I have found the best songd to have stuck in my head are relient k songs...I know every word and can finish them
joy	tweets	@tayloregly I am filming musicans friends of mine  @Landslideduo at a Legion  These people sure know how to dance
joy	tweets	Strawberry margaritas + baked stuffed shrimp =
joy	tweets	Makeup + cute dress = I'm ready to go
surprise	tweets	@jlneveloff CONGRATS on graduating college!
joy	tweets	its a beautiful,albeit, windy at times, night in So No....
joy	tweets	where is the love by the black eyed peas, so many memories. Watching the hulk!
joy	tweets	@DanWarp &quot;Shut Up&quot; was the line removed from the locker scene! I bet I could recite that speech easily! Dare me?!?!
joy	tweets	Figured out twitter for my phone
joy	tweets	finally got my SayNow account up and running  YAYY JBs got a Canadian SayNow number!.. is anyone else using their landline phone? CALL ME!
joy	tweets	@BeccyR It's a program that shows all Twitter and Facebook status updates all in one.. it's alright, but yeah probably won't use it often
surprise	tweets	The Mediteranian Kitchen...oh well can't get them all right.
joy	tweets	A slice of pizza, a movie (Star Trek), and a shared hot fudge sundae @ Sundae House. Saturday nights are Date Nights again
joy	tweets	@veeiceekayi look, i'm following you!
joy	tweets	A gift to myself. PUBLISHED! Episode 68 Align and Re-Align with Sensitivity Level 1-2 75 min #yoga class  http://bit.ly/8QAgh
joy	tweets	@perivision btw - downloaded iphone 3.0 sdk
joy	tweets	I just put my TV on the Canucks game and they score  yaay come on VanCity baby (I know, I can't believe I'm watching hockey either)
surprise	tweets	@cammyjo Tell me about it! What is obvious in real life makes for great entertainment on TV  It is great to try and figure out the killer
surprise	tweets	@mitchelmusso!!! Tell us your experience! I Loveeeee Youu!
joy	tweets	JONAS was absolutely heartwarming. Now, time for bed. Goodnight!  @Jonasbrothers
joy	tweets	@DanielleAdalis the ending is te funniest, you'll see. ;) @JonasBrothers you know paranoif is always stuck in my head?? Love it.
surprise	tweets	Gonna celebrate Mothers Day with the family but gonna start the partying tonite
joy	tweets	such a fun night with Bekah just talkin and stuff. Wuv her
joy	tweets	Gonna go drop some logs in the pool  back in 15 min
joy	tweets	lucky to be where i belong
joy	tweets	@nathydiaz it was ok after all. a couple of things made us late and stuff but after we got there we had a lot of fun.
joy	tweets	Just got home from a day of pampering and shopping!!!! My white outfit is now totally complete
joy	tweets	@Coodieranks Thats nice. My cousin just left my house. He has daughter's their all daddy's girls. So sweet
joy	tweets	its awful breezy out here good thing they sold blankets!
joy	tweets	Making a video for HitRecord... hope it comes out well, it'll be my first record
joy	tweets	alone @ home... nice  very nice!!
surprise	tweets	Haha!!! Korn is FUNNY!!  ugh... If I drink any more $10 beers , I'm going to... Get fat! :/
joy	tweets	@Claymoore for sure! You and your wife seem like cool cats.
surprise	tweets	@MerDerNeverOver just sent you the FC link, Courtney!
joy	tweets	@kakakatey That's cause Ovie is the one man team and when they show Pens highlights, it's the whole because we have more than 1 superstar
joy	tweets	Summer is finally here! Graduation in a week!
joy	tweets	is hanging out with the roomies. I adore the 4 gentlemen I live with. Great people and a good talk when discussing boy issues!!
joy	tweets	woah! I Love the new twitter app! So many new things to do. just got finished watching Jon4Lakers video on this and it was good.
surprise	tweets	I had a great time at the surprise party! We got him good!
joy	tweets	what fun!  I got retweeted by a bot
joy	tweets	@e__O lol but tiz a good song
joy	tweets	Star trek was good times.
joy	tweets	Crawling into bed super happy that the Penguins won tonight
joy	tweets	@arielle_marie Justin Timberlake is sooo funny!!
joy	tweets	Phase 2 was a success. Self discovery is vital. Phase 3 is only mins away. Cool &amp; Classy baby! Shout out 2 &quot;D&quot; yeah mane!
surprise	tweets	@theevilgumby oh that was when he went down to the crowd...how epic dude
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake love the new website
joy	tweets	@Dynamomagician Dude you are awesome
joy	tweets	@penguinsnews Go Pens go, Gino Wins it for the Pens
joy	tweets	@ayanakamura0428 so excited for you and Paris ooh lala  i look forward to knowing you a long long time lovely ! hugs n kisses g
joy	tweets	loves John Mayer's updates.  And modeling in the hot sun... and being sweaty... jk. But seriously...
joy	tweets	just got out of the shower.. man i feel good..
joy	tweets	&quot;She threatened me, I patronized her, we didn't have anything to eat, but I thought there was a connection.&quot;    Movie night.
joy	tweets	Doin the Damn Thing Here at the Crib..Bout to Watch Star Trek... Yup
surprise	tweets	@littlereddr WHAT! That's a sin!
surprise	tweets	@tldavidson Actually there was this other guy I thought I didn't know but turns out I DID know from a previous party...
joy	tweets	@Teresamerica oh yeah he IS!  .. you should see him when he REALLY gets going! LOL .. doesn't care WHO doesn't like it heheheheh GREAT!
joy	tweets	Playing Ghost Online is really interesting. The new updates are Kirin pet and Metamorph for third job.  Can't wait to have a dragon pet
joy	tweets	New pickkshaa! If it's really big then it looks MILKY!  YAAAY!
joy	tweets	@orphanth i just had pasta  from pizzahut.
joy	tweets	@10veisonitsway OHSHNAPSSS. is she pissed at blair as usual ? hahah. &amp; yeeeah, i bake cookies
joy	tweets	watching beauty &amp; the beast  haha
joy	tweets	Thanks to good friends for coming out, hanging out and being our ears out there, you know who you are
joy	tweets	I should get a metal for making it to work this morning...
joy	tweets	@justinphillip. Awesome!  what kind?
joy	tweets	Nice win by the Dodgers, 8-0 over Giants
joy	tweets	SNL is gonna be great tonight
joy	tweets	Parrrtty!..Playing twister and getting tipsy!...well everyone else is lol
joy	tweets	whoohoo! just went to get movies and junk food  its a womens night mwahaha &gt;
surprise	tweets	@Blue_Rose   *follows back*
joy	tweets	got it? good. HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!
joy	tweets	@JanieceLincoln Ha... Totally go for it. You're a journalism major, so it's a perfect fit.
joy	tweets	Today was eventful...
joy	tweets	@alidg take me with you!!!  Have fun!
joy	tweets	Watching One Fine Day while eating my cereal. Start a good sunday with a good movie
joy	tweets	Following new other #sanctuary fans! See the wonders of #SanctuarySunday !!!  good to meet you all!
joy	tweets	is going to be in Cincinnati all day Sunday...visitin' with an old friend/brother from Korea, then a date with someone special
joy	tweets	Gonna read a story bout adam lambert online then bed. Nighty night
surprise	tweets	Google goes pink today
joy	tweets	@Shaunie_O Awesome! My family owns it...The Flowers.. and we love having your kids there! They seem to have lots of fun!!
joy	tweets	@josieinthecity LOL!  good men watch the flicks w/us and just sigh!  this is a good flick so far it's called &quot;Because I Said So&quot;
joy	tweets	@SinnamonLove Yes we did!  Thank You!!
joy	tweets	@IncredibleLAGO I'd be soo honoured if u cld chk out my beats, perhaps sm advice on wat I nd to do 2 improve da overall sound of my music
joy	tweets	eating oreos and milk
joy	tweets	@thatswhack74 aww that's sweet! i made a home made card and i wrote her a song...   it wasn't that much but oh well..
joy	tweets	at dancing...waiting for my turn  hope i get my newww cd with the funky reel music todayy!!!
joy	tweets	@CocoDishman wasssup cocoliciousness!!! I knew u didn't recognize me!  how's ur daughter?
surprise	tweets	@TexasGarabedian I'm seeing LOTS of SOLD signs
joy	tweets	Can't wait for the next twitter.
joy	tweets	@4everBrandy looks like your having fun
surprise	tweets	wants to wish all the moms a Happy Mother's Day.  Hope you're all treated like Queens!
surprise	tweets	says happy mothers day to all mothers everywhere!  http://plurk.com/p/stz7a
joy	tweets	Guys. Just got someone with saran wrap. Tuesdays video shall be awesome
joy	tweets	my two new favorite prayers:  &quot;help me, help me, help me.&quot;  and &quot;thank you, thank you, thank you.&quot;
joy	tweets	@avenue_a The rocky kind! With little rockpools &amp; octopi &amp; shells &amp; stuff. Now I want to be at the beach. Its the perfect overcast day.
joy	tweets	Thanks! carry on the craziness again!!!
joy	tweets	2026 2164 6790 9128  Add me up and lets play something.
surprise	tweets	@Mrsdaughtry Some days you must look hard for that good thing.
surprise	tweets	well its time to hit the hey stack night yalls  TOMORROW IS MOTHERS DAY!
joy	tweets	@vogleratmizzou yay about breaking 200!
joy	tweets	@MariahCarey Happy mother's day to Ms. Pat Carey
joy	tweets	@MaryCateOMalley Like the Simpsons? That's like asking, &quot;so you like breathing?&quot;
joy	tweets	Pinkberry
joy	tweets	FOOOOOD  yummy so. whose washing the dishes now ? NOT ME ! not i ..    rofl
joy	tweets	@TheRealMJ87 I saw the game not a huge cavs fan lol. they pay refs. But Yao's out 4 the rest of playoffs so L.a is cruising to the WCF
joy	tweets	@chrissinicole I guess thats just how I am lol
joy	tweets	Four hour baseball game. At least the Crew spent much of it making the Cubbies look bad.
joy	tweets	@peacelovekelly and we will all eat it and be happy
joy	tweets	bowling with cousins  awesome
joy	tweets	lets play some russian roulette.
joy	tweets	@Sarahbear9789 Haha thanks.
joy	tweets	another bday w a special friend
joy	tweets	@worldfamousKid awwwww poor Drew... I hope you feel better before Krush
joy	tweets	@dexterlo feel better!   c's been teething all week &amp; its been rough...
joy	tweets	@theteganandsara PRIDE next weekend in Long Beach!!
joy	tweets	Just watched the movie The Holiday. I had forgotten what a feel good movie it was!  Lovely evening.
joy	tweets	Ok, time for bed. Good night Twitter
joy	tweets	Just at Starbucks with Farrah!
joy	tweets	Going for a ride! Perfect night to go out and chill
joy	tweets	Had a nice dinner with mom! I've started the chicken rolls. They are going to cook overnight. The rest I'll do tomorrow.
joy	tweets	please check out www.mysweetebony.com and lmk what you think  ... my first paysite ... post up your site too!
joy	tweets	i need to see @betsycon7...now! someone buy me a plane ticket, please?
joy	tweets	is NOT watching Star Trek tonight. But is heading to a lovely dinner and fun board games night with @chrisweis
joy	tweets	WH Correspondant's Dinner Rocked! Wanda Sykes was hilarious and Obama wasn't too bad  Happy Mother's Day to all the mom's out there......
joy	tweets	Watching one of my fav movies Sparkle  + go get food later!
joy	tweets	this week has been fun...i hope next week will be even better  NYC in 19 days
joy	tweets	Listening to dashboard confessional &amp; counting down the days until the @varsityfc concert on May 16th with @ashgoz
joy	tweets	@coleryanxxx yes LOL that's good one .remeber that bottoms are always the top .
joy	tweets	@BabyPatches I had a very good day - lots of stretching and sleeping in the sun
joy	tweets	Bioshock is as fantastic as the first time I played it. Now sleep then more Bioshock tomorrow
joy	tweets	@JENjbphoto totally digging the napa valley idea! I can deal with wine and a limo ride
joy	tweets	Going I sleep today was a long day happy mothers day to all the moms out there
joy	tweets	@jumblejim &quot;A hike in the woods with four little kids couldn't be that exhausting, right? Wrong.&quot;  LOL.. Try downright masochistic!
joy	tweets	If you guys would be interested in watching me get tattooed tomorrow, let me know!
joy	tweets	Writing this post on my new iPod Touch!
joy	tweets	@jadedcreative did you find me a spot on your team??  wink wink.
joy	tweets	@zeenell when we were poor and lived in Germany it was our favourite cheap Saturday. Now we have one 20min away.
joy	tweets	that party was a great time  just got 'paranoid' by @jonasbrothers as a ringtone! yay
joy	tweets	Margaritas with my Momo. I've missed her.
joy	tweets	@Pamela_Edwards Heh heh. Odd but amusing. Thanks!
joy	tweets	@PaulaCampbell Happy Mothers Day Paula
joy	tweets	@DC_VulcanRaven thanks again
joy	tweets	time to go swimming in the freezing water at kalies. yeah!
joy	tweets	@Personal_Trainr Thanks for the link.  It made me smile
joy	tweets	@Joannah11 I've had @hempware for a while now, just in case. And yeah, I start work there again tomorrow. Very excited
joy	tweets	Said The Whale &amp; Mother Mother? OK!
joy	tweets	happy thats its finally summer  and cant wait to turn 21 on weds!!!!!!!
surprise	tweets	So glad I'm finally done with finals!
joy	tweets	@robinware Did you see Star Trek? Now I can't sleep.........too much action. Can't wind down!!!
joy	tweets	@DakotaCassidy Hah!  Sparkly ones at that.
joy	tweets	@CrysWinchester HAHAAH! Crys, you blowing the fuses is a typical move
joy	tweets	@Pamluther I'd like to put your fruity article on my website if you'll permit
joy	tweets	Feet hurt...finally in bed...will not forget this crunch when it's over...very very productive day today though
surprise	tweets	working my way through a Myst maze while my video exports
surprise	tweets	Baby girl scraped her leg in a bike accident today. Couldn't find any gauze, had to use panty liners and medical tape to patch her up.
joy	tweets	Wearing &quot;purple with a passion&quot; by OPI and I absolutely love it!!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wc1y - Cracking myself more &amp; more up..  PhootoBoothingisFunForBunny Volumen Eins!
joy	tweets	Today was fun  I &lt;3 meeting boardies! The acoustic set was just soo phenomenal!
joy	tweets	Time for bed!  Hope your saturday was as lovely as mine was...
joy	tweets	enough for today, good night all
surprise	tweets	i am so going to see transformers on imax.   SO EXCITED!!!
joy	tweets	41 Followers? Random people, but okay!
joy	tweets	watching my new season eleven dvd
joy	tweets	JONAS rocked tonight!  going to bed after I write a lil bit... Night and bless all
joy	tweets	@Kevin_AnR_Shine Feeling pretty good. You should check this out http://www.myspace.com/bigcitymonkey Just saying.
joy	tweets	@TxKFilms Yay! have fun
joy	tweets	hi twitter people
joy	tweets	okay the new jonas episode was awesome
joy	tweets	got a lot of shopping done today...really excited bout my new travel journal! Going to go to sleep watching a movie with my cousins
surprise	tweets	whoops...  not  in my last tweet
joy	tweets	Back in New Mexico again! Happy Mothers day to you mothers out there!
joy	tweets	@vardenrhode Many thanks, mate
surprise	tweets	@bubzbeauty awww. i wish i had a younger sis ): but i do have an older one!!! i bet your younger sis loves it JUST as much as u do!
joy	tweets	@asiareeves I'm just glad it turned out okay for you!
joy	tweets	LIVE FROM NEW YORK ITS SATURDAY NIGHT!  finally a new one
joy	tweets	had a lovely breakfast with mum...yummy pancakes
joy	tweets	*happy sigh* Mom liked the flowers I sent! PHEW! It's never a sure thing with her
joy	tweets	@johncmayer Haha your humor makes me happy
joy	tweets	My inner desire is to go to an isle in the middle of the Mediterranean to soak up the sun; Good night... as I dream that inner desire.
joy	tweets	finally packed...thinking its time for some sleep! Ready for Chicago!
joy	tweets	Bones (the show). Check. PB &amp; J. Check. Writing my play. Check. The simple joys are still here, even if the greatest are gone.
surprise	tweets	Really!
joy	tweets	@teamwinnipeg  Gerry, THANK YOU for following me!..help spread the news...further...I think this will be cool...thank u thank u thank u!
joy	tweets	@google aahh google, you never fail to make me smile http://twitpic.com/4w9rp (via @richiban)
joy	tweets	is obsessing over chris pine  heehee...
joy	tweets	omg  @nicolekennedy i found it  thnx
joy	tweets	@mrs_nickj07 Um....Nicks Voice,Smile,Eyes,Laugh,and Hes a Great Rolemodel
joy	tweets	started a great mother's day season!
joy	tweets	@Hstreet96 always good to see you - even in cyberspace
joy	tweets	@AliciaWag hehe - about NZ being the most magical place on Earth.
joy	tweets	@Jakpedz you should come out!!
joy	tweets	Jumping im the shower after a long day of work  it shall feel ahmazing I CAN MATH!
joy	tweets	@YourboyH thank you broooooooo!!!! I've been out of the twitter loop today!
joy	tweets	@ Butlers watching Dr. Farmer rock out w/ the hispanic Jimmy Hendrix ... drinking Cosmos
joy	tweets	@Reicya Thanx sis I'll b sure to let them know how many people r praying w/them...
joy	tweets	Live from New York, it's Justin Timberlake!
joy	tweets	OMJ! The 3rd episode of Jonas is too great! They are so funny. I wish I was the Pizza Girll. Lol &lt;3
surprise	tweets	wait...why didn't I know about this wedding? Aren't I supposed to be in yours and vice versa?  btw I know it's not yours
joy	tweets	has decided NOT TO GO TO UNI TODAY!  http://plurk.com/p/su0yr
surprise	tweets	@phantomdata lmao I'm glad you guys liked it
joy	tweets	Finally off work!!!
joy	tweets	@DonGeronimo dear michael sorce, you crack me up! sincerely, me
joy	tweets	@laniew the exact one i was thinking of  the bestttt.
joy	tweets	@nickasaur hey nick  how are youu? x
joy	tweets	'Cause you have that effect on me, you do ? ?Currently loving Hey Monday. Thanks a lot, @alexrellosa.
joy	tweets	@Poekasso Howz it going hun??
joy	tweets	11.40 AM. I don't wanna wake up. Shoo, roommate, shoo.
joy	tweets	@glorianatheband hey guys!! saw you in st. louis and LOVED you.. would you ever play in CT?? i met you outside after and u were SO NICE!!
joy	tweets	@johnwyattedgar i dont really trust the judgements and vouches of @brandy_xo   jk. i'll think about becoming a friend of yours
joy	tweets	@annaeeee my youtube channel? Demilynnmusic haha cause I love 2 sing &amp; stuff so yea
joy	tweets	Hawks lost but it was a good time
joy	tweets	@slashfilm peter!! follow me!! oh and have fun in europe!
joy	tweets	@mcrfash1 that's great!
joy	tweets	Bran!! Watch my video!!!!! please dont make me go stalker status 2nite  http://bit.ly/3Ysav
joy	tweets	@DaRealMrDevine lol! I thought we was suppose to guess..damn, I tried tho..lolol!
joy	tweets	@bella456  im going to my inlaws tonight.  hopefully my new niece will be there!  who needs kids when my inlaws have them all for me!
joy	tweets	fiiiinaaalllyyy home after driving all day. speeding ticket. torential rains. ... fun times
joy	tweets	Taking the dog on a walk..the weather is perfect rite now  @patty_p sucks becuz she didn't come with me hahaha
joy	tweets	Going to Jack's for dinner with my BFF!
joy	tweets	You should retweet others good tweets at least 10 a day to get involved into things at twitter
joy	tweets	@aimeelynne you are right. haha. shes not that bad.
joy	tweets	P-Nutt got a new collar and leash today  http://apps.facebook.com/dogbook/profile/view/1034415
joy	tweets	SNL with Justin Timberlake!
joy	tweets	On my way to dazzle bar!!
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's Dayyyy. Love you mummyyyyyyyy
surprise	tweets	My my I have never watched so many movies in one night with my mommy
joy	tweets	@cowpunkmom Sweet deal! I so want to see that movie! Methinks we may have to do a Star Trek movie night some time, hmm?
joy	tweets	had a awesome day!
surprise	tweets	Message me to book your piercing appointment now !
disgust	tweets	Time to get off the puter. Nite all.
surprise	tweets	@gleannignacio hehe true. i wonder what he will come up with
joy	tweets	live long and prosper  #fb
surprise	tweets	uqh soo boredd supposedd to be asleep cuzz i have too wakke upp earlyy but i juss cantt sleepp.! omq tomorroww iss mother's dayy
joy	tweets	Noticed Wellwood has all his teeth in tonight, that's nice
joy	tweets	@MarissaC500 Aww!  That's so sweet!  So glad she's home with you now. Happy mother's day to you
surprise	tweets	@spicydesign Look at this ! http://twitpic.com/4wcqa  I can't see them at all. What the heck..
joy	tweets	OMG... Folding my laundry and matched ALL socks to its perfect pair!  Good laundry folding day it is
joy	tweets	Everyone going to the hometown show is excited they get to go on Thames Street. I'M GONNA SEE THE ORIGINAL THAMES RIVER, BITCH. ohhhh.
joy	tweets	@MoreDior if u can smell goodness all around you and energy of big city and pinch on butt feel real YES u are in Chicago
joy	tweets	@vulcansmuse @lorirusso still waiting to have a beer with Moldovan. At least he's happy I came.
joy	tweets	Y is it when I luv someone I fear them? i just wish someone can exsplain it 2 me
joy	tweets	THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON!!!!! I'm so excited about this fucking movie
joy	tweets	After sleeping in  the rest of the day was busy. however, I got to spend the last of it with my favorite babysittee (the kids are great!).
joy	tweets	@mundah and I'm really glad you were able to watch the game
joy	tweets	@WatchMeRise youre very welcome....you deserve it!!
joy	tweets	@Mattdavelewis Lol Your tweets are so funny! I met you in Calgary! You're awesome  Can't wait for the next HP movie!
joy	tweets	Very tired from a day of awesomeness and cake    Now time for a bit of sleep.
joy	tweets	@dustyedwards  Those dog pic had me  ROLF!  The one  with the snow stuck too it  has that &quot;if looks could kill look&quot; way funny
joy	tweets	@BooG_PopuLarEnt awww boog u aint been on in a min....hey to ya.  but that's whats up enjoy ya'll selves especially your lil cousin.
joy	tweets	@Praxilla As opposed to twitter, where all we can do is talk to people.  SL is fun. I already have way too many ways to distract myself.
joy	tweets	@nickiminaj pleeeeeease pleeeease make me a dj drop
joy	tweets	@Roqayah good morning
surprise	tweets	What if Twitter was really called &quot;Twatter&quot;? I'm posting a Twat!
joy	tweets	had a GREATTTTTT day    taking Liz home now. &lt;3
joy	tweets	@missSHANNAbaby YAY  u get to see ddub again ;) those 5 men always keep me happy &amp; motivated
joy	tweets	@JoeJonas1Fan1 haha yay for crust  (i tend to be a little weird when im super bored lol)
surprise	tweets	The ultimate shirt folding tool (http://www.flipfold.com/)- I saw @sheldoncooper using this in one of Big Bang Theory's episodes
surprise	tweets	he's pretty cute.
joy	tweets	Is enjoying staying in the house today
surprise	tweets	who said i can't wear my converse with my dress?
joy	tweets	Ouutside in the city talkin to trey trey  i misssed him
joy	tweets	@konghee It's allright pastor, jiayou for the book!!
surprise	tweets	@MarijuanaDeals I have the best bestfriend in the whole world .. My Mother's Day present = ambien, klonopin and a quarter! woohoo!  smh...
joy	tweets	i would take the ???s out the sky for you
joy	tweets	@MrsTravisBennet its cool.  Im glad everyone had a nice date night.  Maybe one day ill get one too.
surprise	tweets	Cavs do it again!!  Oh yea!
joy	tweets	is excited about so R and R for mother's day
joy	tweets	just about to go home. I'm usually 'mr. positive' but this has been one of those daze. well, 15 mins until tomorrow!
joy	tweets	@MzWhatThePuck Good luck  I wanna see them again too. I waited outside by their buses to see them before, no autographs tho!
joy	tweets	@Peacehippie04 is a loser;) baha, dude! i'm gonna come &amp; put those pictures on my myspace really quick!
joy	tweets	@ChynaDollxo  Na my friend.. why? you ask  is it my great physique lol
joy	tweets	@yaykimo baaha  &amp; healthy choice my friend! (:
surprise	tweets	@liadoria nat has a twitter acct!
joy	tweets	Archuleta &amp; Cook will arrive in 2 days!!
joy	tweets	heading to bed with tea to finish Breaking Dawn.
joy	tweets	@QueenSapphyre So!!! Why should that matter? I bet you would be GREAT at it! I do!!! It's what you love, right? Why not go for it!
joy	tweets	@PANICitsLeslie Aww that's still awesome. You had fun though I can assume.
joy	tweets	@MariM525 lol I am blessed to have you in my life too &quot;mama&quot;  Sorry about your back pain. You should do some stretches.
joy	tweets	@kristi_crow he's happy because hs is there haha I know we would be
surprise	tweets	moshing to fall out boy, and confetti bears are falling from the sky
joy	tweets	@Jayeliwood No it's not sad. Should make you proud
joy	tweets	Moveout should be fun. Thank you VT students for working to make VT the best that it can possibly be
joy	tweets	I'm on my way to see '17 Again'.  I've wanted to see it for a looong time
joy	tweets	So apparently i left my front door wide open before going out to my show. With my and my moms laptops on the coffee table. Love my area
joy	tweets	@Metqueen sounds awesome..
joy	tweets	@erichalvorsen @LorenBrinton @nicksantino i say you all tour again. same lineup...with austin gibbs!
surprise	tweets	Gorgeous day!  Worked the Master Gardener plant sale, trimmed smoke bushes, and now to do some writing.
joy	tweets	dancing around and cleaning the house..... loving my sunday so far
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake i think u have more than enough friends now, including me lol
joy	tweets	@triplesix_ Whoop whooop
joy	tweets	@katevoegele that was an amazing concert!!! got some really good video and pictures
joy	tweets	@MrsBlue23 its been reli gdd ty its 4.50am lol and im not sleeping :O but im watching tv alls good lol how was yours?
joy	tweets	@jerwjr Thank you!  I'm working on @ddlovato's
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wdgr - Yay! I'm a blonde again!! I feel so girly
joy	tweets	@amoonchilde  Thank you!  Tomorrow is my b-day too! I tease my Mom and tell her I was her Mother's Day gift.
joy	tweets	is up. moooooorning!  http://plurk.com/p/su3dg
joy	tweets	@adventureaddict Awesome, congrats on completing it! (I can't believe you cycled the distance to my cottage though in 1 day.  )
surprise	tweets	@Kweeenie He's too old school for burnouts. Just a lap around the track, like they used to.  #NASCAR
joy	tweets	Ha, sure  hey, text me normal. 512 718 4879
joy	tweets	@BarbaraNixon THAT was a GREAT AMP JOKE.. Thanks for sharing
joy	tweets	sleep time  big/little lunch tomorrow at olive garden
joy	tweets	@PrincessSuperC good luck C have funn!
joy	tweets	Going to go kennel the dogs and then I am going to watch Goblet of Fire
joy	tweets	@syedbalkhi It's ok now ! I've cleared my cache and everything is fine
joy	tweets	Thanks for the concern, guys. A few stitches later, all is well. Whew.
joy	tweets	now accepting maid applications.  would be nice if you'd start first thing tomorrow - would make a wonderful Mother's Day present!
joy	tweets	paramore songs? one of the best! currently listening to &quot;emergency&quot;
joy	tweets	Having dinner @ Rainforest Cafe with Laura.
joy	tweets	My lesson is finally done for tomorrow morning. I am looking forward to speaking to the high schoolers on dating.
surprise	tweets	@caroldee77 haha I know.  Sorry about all the typos in that last tweet...blehhh.  ps - Because I Said So is sucha cute movie..  awww
joy	tweets	59 may be my new FAV number!!!
joy	tweets	going to eat rice and fried chicken from sederhana  the padang restaurant! yummy!
joy	tweets	@rowansong !!! It's fantastic!
joy	tweets	@arinbjorn Thank you for sharing. I appreciate your honesty  I hadn't tweeted for 30 some odd hours and got a little tweet happy.
joy	tweets	@courseofhistory Vancouver, so classy.  #canucks
joy	tweets	These days have been looking better better betterrrrrrrr.
joy	tweets	@Jinxie_G yup - that's where I watch all my movies
joy	tweets	Such a long day!!! So much fun though  tomorrow will be just as much.
joy	tweets	@valerie2776 Quite a few. Peacocks and Oceanographer's Choice are my new favorites to play
surprise	tweets	Off to see Wolverine
joy	tweets	Alright, so playing cards in the rain wasn't the smartest idea, and now I might be sick... but it was fun
joy	tweets	@Samantha797 Yay! Tell her I said congrats
joy	tweets	@Mary_R_Roberts I LOOK forward to seeing and sharing
joy	tweets	More pictures! It was such a pretty day  http://tr.im/kWOD #fb
joy	tweets	I think Steph will enjoy her first Mother's Day tomorrow.
joy	tweets	Nighty night Twits! Tty in the morning...
joy	tweets	@WildFlowerSweet lol... hell yeah!
joy	tweets	&quot;Bad words are a crutch, they lead to tattoos and peircings!&quot;  Hahahaha!
joy	tweets	@rjdempsey savour these moments!  #canucks
surprise	tweets	Eating some ice cream cake  its bomb!
joy	tweets	@Candice_Jo you'll have a drink bc the race is over...I'm telling you,it's an addiction that leads to Elvis presiding over our wedding
joy	tweets	@rockndan dude... i tried the vegetarian thing and i lasted about 2 months... good luck!!! going vegan is intense!!! good move though.
joy	tweets	trying to learn to tweet!!  it's all good I hope..
joy	tweets	@bwmson And so very you.  You know I say it w/ nothing but love, dude.
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
surprise	tweets	@Soonmethod @clofresh Thanks for the greeting
joy	tweets	The wife gets stung by a bee and she has been acting like i big ass baby ever since and this was about 5 hours ago.  lol what a baby.
joy	tweets	Relaxin after a fun day
surprise	tweets	@nucLEAH oh yeah, that's right! thanks for reminding me
joy	tweets	Just saw Star Trek! It was AMAZING! Seriously, so good. The entire cast was excellent, Spock and Kirk especially.  I want to see it again.
joy	tweets	@SRMPROMOINC lol, sounds fun
joy	tweets	@ItStartsWithUs hey!  sorry for the late reply.but i do plan on posting on both facebook and twitpic.
joy	tweets	what a fantastic saturday
joy	tweets	had a nice time with her little sister...baby is all grown up
joy	tweets	watching Justin Timberlake on SNL
joy	tweets	had a fun time at the concert!  almost got a picture with Taylor Momsen, freakin next in line then she left!
surprise	tweets	walking by the water in annapolis with froyo and no shoes
joy	tweets	@NicholeAudrey LOL! Ok, &quot;we&quot; will get right on that. I will let you know the verdict manana. Off to watch a movie with my lovely wife!
joy	tweets	just watched yes man. bahaha. that movie is messed up
surprise	tweets	@KatDerby Haha ya, my friend and I are totally having a kick off party for the occasion!!
joy	tweets	@mrskutcher HUGE difference in temperature from the last time you were here, huh?  Gotta love DC. lol
joy	tweets	Yay got the Internet on my itouch working
surprise	tweets	@nerdwife Now, what on earth led you to believe that?
joy	tweets	@KimKardashian saw you today! So BEAUTIFUL!! You looked so good! Glad to see the wonderful turnout!
joy	tweets	got a new prom dress
surprise	tweets	@MissXu Would *you* pay $60K for a lunch with Oscar de la Renta?  I don't see her hitting East Village shops, do you?
joy	tweets	says she wants to be w/ marykay @ sendai right now
joy	tweets	The horoscopes website I use has all changed around  I like it!
joy	tweets	Love, laughter, creativity.
joy	tweets	@MathewDavid iknowww! Not many people know about it tho. So I like to keep it my little secret
surprise	tweets	Gonna WoW for a bit. Later, Twitter &lt;3
joy	tweets	@mattmccoy Interview! 177 views! 22 away from 200!! Thanx for reading ppl!!  http://tiny.cc/GmKbT #mattmccoy
surprise	tweets	@Ayosilva when in doubt go with the instincts.
joy	tweets	@Mansur_Rahal Thing about living is that there are always undeveloped pictures in your future.
joy	tweets	I sewed my shirt  and I fail at screaming v_v but I had a quesadilla!  Quesadiaas are bombbb &lt;3 I will try and scream another day! :]
joy	tweets	today was boring, but i did a lot of homework. tomorrow should be amazing, i can't wait.
joy	tweets	Just talked to Anthony Rapp. Face to face. !!!!!
joy	tweets	@HannaHassan go to mid valley la boobs  haha! never mind la, i don't wanna go with you anyways
joy	tweets	Heading downtown! Drinks and dancing!!
surprise	tweets	@alekandsteph thanks for adding me, glad to have you
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wdui - She's so festive aint' she hehe
joy	tweets	500! updates! wooow!! haha!!
joy	tweets	Having Margaritas w/ mommie...what a great combo!
joy	tweets	I'm going to go check out DJ Volt.
joy	tweets	Goin to drive-in movie for the first time
surprise	tweets	@stephanierhenee wow... you're doing this all through text?  I would get tired after a while
surprise	tweets	@TheRealJordin so wednesday my mom is making a huge special dinner &amp; whatnot to celebrate the new single, just so ya knoww
joy	tweets	@JenAlaniz Don't worry you will have Ava to distract you on the flight
joy	tweets	recovering from being sick ... anyone want to bring me soup?
joy	tweets	played okami for 14 hours today
joy	tweets	Just spent the evening at a gala for her high school drama company's 20th anniversary. Lots of memories
joy	tweets	Popping out to see SAMSON AND DELILAH this arvo, hear it is good
joy	tweets	lol...my neighbors must think im nuts...for #canucks
joy	tweets	Instead of telling God how big my problems are, I like telling my problems how big God is!  http://bit.ly/5ofzj
joy	tweets	@Custardcuppcake how is Aussie...im hopin to be there in Sydney in less than a week just got my VISA on thursday whoot whoot
joy	tweets	@selin162 SELIN-It-To-the-Highest-Bidder!! HEYYYYY MAMA!
joy	tweets	Nearly finished Angels and Demons, awesome book, feel so lame for only reading it now
joy	tweets	so ready for dc tomorrow, photo trippin'
surprise	tweets	@BlankMustDie thank you for the followfriday hun
joy	tweets	@courrtneyyy Thank you so much  Me neitherrrr!
joy	tweets	@DonyaMaries oh absolutely!  I cant wait for the lettuces to come up.
surprise	tweets	i ate so much
joy	tweets	@dzaniff I was searching for interesting people on twitter then i found yours and the link of your blog was posted on your profile.
joy	tweets	@Ms_Nigeria oh yeah I know  We met when I was taking out the trash, hhaha
joy	tweets	@JohnnyDeppNews  back in a few .. i will make u a lil something
joy	tweets	@otoole4info Check out my latest FB post.  (Things I want to happen). I don't think you can miss it.
joy	tweets	@ms_hypnotic oh thanx, just when i thought ilost it, iappreciate it
surprise	tweets	@MattG124 you own a didgeridoo?!?!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4we51 - summer is here.
joy	tweets	@karinphillips it's because you're popular
joy	tweets	Be sure to let the moms you know how fabulous you think they are!!   Almost Mother's Day.
joy	tweets	@dimples_03 He'll know Tupac lyrics too!
joy	tweets	@howie_d Wish Leigh a Happy Mother's Day for me! It's midnight in NY
joy	tweets	Multiply's getting boring :| I wish Reichelle has twitter. @isaofoz, convince recruit herr, will ya?
joy	tweets	@JoannePeh jia you !
joy	tweets	@mkeguy69 thank you  have a great weekend
joy	tweets	@nmogha9 Thank you so much
joy	tweets	@AnoopDoggDesai i haven't watch it yet... but it seems like a cool movie.. anyway happy watching...rate it after u go watched it yea..
joy	tweets	long weekend. thank god i can sleep in on monday
joy	tweets	super excited
joy	tweets	Who thinks I should start doing iPhone App Development business? @ reply to win an EasyWriter Pro code!
joy	tweets	Ok that mother fucking duet was hysterical LOL
joy	tweets	Aight, pau au'au... Heading to the Blaisdell Arena for the Ladies of the 80's concert!!! CheeHee... Awwrrite!!!
joy	tweets	LOL. THX WHIT!!!
joy	tweets	off to a place where i dream...maybe i ll see you there!?!   sweet dreams, all!
joy	tweets	@harrislacewell thanks so much for that!  i will most definitely pass that along to my amazing mother...
joy	tweets	Looking forward to Sunday b/c the weather should be warm and sunny
surprise	tweets	I woulda never believed that five years later I'd be a female engineer myself making tracks
surprise	tweets	@RetroRewind Yay for Block Party!  You're the BOMB! Blockheads &lt;3 Dave!   Thanks for supporting NKOTB!
joy	tweets	@takinghostages ~entonces estas perdonada porque sigues a tom conrad, who we all know is made of awesome
joy	tweets	Classic JT for a Saturday evening  http://bit.ly/LrzJr
joy	tweets	@ShaylaSenzafine haha..yeah..10th of May..lol..im greeting in advance! haha
joy	tweets	Watching Ace of Cakes: LOST edition omfgggg
joy	tweets	@Jgurl804 thanks!!!
joy	tweets	goodnight twitter, ill see you after 10 + hours of sleep or more
joy	tweets	@lizziechristine Thank you so much  Miss you toooo!
joy	tweets	@rebogard READY!!!!!  ... I've heard Bobo probobly 100 times , also BoboByeBye!!
joy	tweets	@angienewton You mean set up to start using? just jump in! Use the # sign with whatever word you want to use
joy	tweets	@emilyorshan hahaha i have a bob marley one
joy	tweets	@MsEsquire hmm, interesting... i think im on the way to that club too
joy	tweets	I like this bride's sense of humor, she wore this wedding gown once...by accident!  http://bit.ly/Tnshf
joy	tweets	wants to greet all the mom's out there a Happy Mothers Day!!! May you enjoy your day!!
joy	tweets	@BaybeehDoll No u miss me !!!!! LOL
joy	tweets	@schmiss re: Edwards I hope so!
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all to all the wonderful moms out there.  -Matalatine
joy	tweets	getting off for the night, in such a great mood!
joy	tweets	@rockonrebelchld Happy mother's day to you as well!  Have a good one!
joy	tweets	you got my vote hottest guy of the yearrrr @thomasfiss
joy	tweets	best part of that movie was that kirk was a total babe
surprise	tweets	@wolfchild59 Heh... I send dem when I get dem Jen... I was shocked I found so many these last few days... earlier in the week nothing...
joy	tweets	I hope my mom enjoys her Mother's Day gift
joy	tweets	@PHILIPGRANGER hey Phillll! Wazzuppppp?!
joy	tweets	ang payat ko na, yes! hoping to go down to my Melbourne weight from last year  http://plurk.com/p/su622
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wehl - graduation pic
surprise	tweets	headed into venue.  bbl
joy	tweets	@4everBrandy nice capture
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all of the mothers and mothers-to-be  My mom is getting a special gift from me today
joy	tweets	@AmbersAlerts lol i'll have to look on youtube later  thanks
joy	tweets	2night- dance parties, fun times, &amp; awkward situations  highlight- driving w/ nims and annie listening to satellite windows downnnn
joy	tweets	I've mastered the Spongebob
joy	tweets	@autumngirl82 hopefully I'll get to see HTB next week and LA really soon!! Can't wait!!!
joy	tweets	@tncc24 - so sweet  why aren't you out livin' it up this saturday night?
surprise	tweets	@edwardharran agree completely. it's all about attitude &amp; chutzpah
joy	tweets	enjoying this whole relaxation thing
joy	tweets	Saw the new Star Trek movie the other day. I strongly recommend it!
joy	tweets	Had a great day with the moms and sis  really makes ya appreciate those days
surprise	tweets	@DarryleP I guess that's true!
joy	tweets	back home with my puppyy
joy	tweets	@slinkawoogie I'm so honored to hear my name on a Breezy track  hope u liked my shit! #drunk_bowling
joy	tweets	pretty tired after a nice full day.
surprise	tweets	Oh goody - It's Doctor Who! Hooray for IPTV
joy	tweets	&quot;how do you like them apples&quot; is from the movie Rio Bravo. Good Will Hunting make a lot more sense now.
joy	tweets	@sharonhayes #twappy http://bit.ly/D9qVk
joy	tweets	@tiny1877 Oh no! I guess I'm officially a big nerd now. I heard the movie is great even if you don't like Trek... and I do
joy	tweets	@JessicaCorban stellar! You 2 look great
joy	tweets	Working on the store's Facebook group, getting ready to relax and play some 360. I'm thinking Mercenaries 2 tonight; Me likey explosions
joy	tweets	Falling asleep while listening to James Taylor
joy	tweets	@msulatbuku LOL! Glad you like it!
joy	tweets	watching ace of cakes  its suwweeeeet they use alot of fondont or howeva ya spell it.(:
joy	tweets	@FlipFlopsChels Yes, I would love some more cowbell!
joy	tweets	@vanessavaldeezy i'll go to the movies with you
surprise	tweets	@hollymccaig OH yea, it's a can't miss w/ Justin Timberlake  I have not had the pleasure of removing a tick from Dakota yet.. Not fun!
joy	tweets	Can't wait for tomorrow ! It's finally over ! Bittersweet for sure
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAYYYY!!!
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all you mother's in Twitterville!
joy	tweets	Going out to down town with a friend, long time haven't seen him...OKOK.. i am feeling fresh again
joy	tweets	Time to put the weapons on the charger for the night.  Sleep tight
joy	tweets	@greenpolkadot99 u go to profile then ill help u from there cause ur right next to me!!! he he he
joy	tweets	@loadedman look at my background that's how I want my future date to be like  (well if I ever get him).
joy	tweets	WGN is playing old episodes of Rocky &amp; Bullwinkle. Fractured Fairy Tales for the win
joy	tweets	thanks mom, we love you too.
joy	tweets	Haha. Lacey just shutdown the livestream. Party time
joy	tweets	@EPLisa diapers??  Feeding?  Cooking?  I don't do any of that stuff!!!  Hahaha... yeah, right!  Sounds like a normal day for me.
joy	tweets	Downtown drinking celebrating the cavs victory!!!
joy	tweets	Crabs are amazing...well as long as they're not in your pants.
joy	tweets	Gotta be at church by ten for camera meeting  Finally!! =D lol
joy	tweets	just ran through the rain
joy	tweets	@clairezee86 fo sho, im down
joy	tweets	@QUEENCHINAB He seemed all happy about it
joy	tweets	Cannot wait to get all dolled up and go out tonight
joy	tweets	Took the dog to the off-leash park today. He overheated then ran and laid in the only mud puddle there and splashed around. Was amusing
joy	tweets	thelma &amp; louise, Good movie.
joy	tweets	Watching fireworks off the Bay bridge.
joy	tweets	@HarleyPlays you and @dezzy88 are both baitersss  hope tonight is fun!
joy	tweets	Congratulations Mr. Jay-el and Mrs. Maricar Chu! Wish you all the best in the world!
joy	tweets	@aimeesays aww i hope it does fly by because JT episodes are usually really good (and it's early but so far this ep hassn't disappointed)
joy	tweets	@xVOJOx It's kind of like your birthday is 3-days long!
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all mothers!
joy	tweets	Swiped the last package of fruit snacks! Hell yeah. Finished Catch-22. What shall I read next?!? I'm such a nerd
joy	tweets	@Mj69Catz thanks  let me know which print from my gallery you would like, and we can work the details out
surprise	tweets	@tracydidit that was not Venessa that was me..
joy	tweets	Goodnight  PS- thanks for jailbreaking my iPod, stacie &lt;3
joy	tweets	@JJLola Thanxx for following me
joy	tweets	making my mom a mothers day card
joy	tweets	@Krystania thanks.mine wasn't too bad. Made a card for my mom, had a nice nap, finished some work, wrote bills, I have a surprise for you
joy	tweets	@jpblogger Nothing like &quot;RocknRolla&quot; which is another good film with rock in the title
joy	tweets	I'm really happy...and drunk  but really happy
joy	tweets	Just got home from a wonderful day with my family!!  I had so much fun today.
joy	tweets	@Cohoons_World LOL! poor cubbies! brewers on a roll?? my rangers lost, but my Leafs won!
joy	tweets	My dad knows i got drunk today. And i didnt get in trouble.
joy	tweets	@WAVELORD @dari_tariq @lollipopvomit thank you
joy	tweets	gahh. my freaking lip ring is going to be the death of me. it never cooraperates with me. and im over it now jack haha;
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MOMMIES
disgust	tweets	@RaceSpeed You are so welcome!!!  Keep 'em coming!
joy	tweets	happy mothers day. ekin sayang mak!!!
surprise	tweets	@pursebuzz They do! Lilash I'm guessing, right?  Oh and what camera are you using? That is insane quality!
joy	tweets	Fuzzball is more fun than Mother's Day  http://tinyurl.com/dhpol7
joy	tweets	chatting with some of my old classmates, hellyeah fun but we have some of very weird conversation haha. @dyankaaa hello? bbm lo error ya?
joy	tweets	@kluless65 I am doing fantastic JJJ!  You? Doing your questions already? teacher's pet!!
joy	tweets	@A77boy i.m with u on the internet surfing part lol but we.re drinking
joy	tweets	@Chocolatito ahhh!! haha ... thanks for clarifying
joy	tweets	Just got a bunch of presents in the mail from my mama! So excited to open them on my birthday... 3 more days!
joy	tweets	just got back from cheescake factory boy oh boy are my guts stuffed
joy	tweets	@MichaelNi Ooh, I love sweet potato fries! We should definitely go.
joy	tweets	just met Sarah Kelly... wow... she is an amazing woman of God!  and she gave me a free t-shirt!  gotta love free merch
joy	tweets	Very content with my life at the moment
joy	tweets	A little happy for the wine jeje ok it'sm my free time so who cares, jaja i love this day
joy	tweets	@misscruisette Glad you like!
joy	tweets	@joannarobbins You are 'spot on'...I wouldn't tweet without it!! Thanks for your share tonight.
joy	tweets	@casndra okayy mail me thenn  Lol im hyperrr too much candy &amp;&amp; Jello x]
joy	tweets	@Desert_Paradise Hi Dale, your welcome man! Hope ur weekend is going well. I think I would enjoy your Desert Paradise! fun, fun, fun!
surprise	tweets	okay im happy again  i watched the second episode of jonas on youtube. i think tomorrow my family is going to olive garden for mothers day
joy	tweets	Had a good day 2day!  off to bed. Nite tweeps.
surprise	tweets	took the most amazing power nap ever. now its starbucks time.
joy	tweets	@MsNessa thats howya pose ta do get cake  (twitpic)
joy	tweets	hungraaaaaaaaay. i'll just eat. don't go away Twitter! @whatchandrasaid LUNCH.
joy	tweets	@PrinceJamir thanks for the follow bro!
joy	tweets	@james_a_michael CUTE  thanks for sharing! AND PLEASE Direct Message ME before you go to bed James ;) ;) you know you want to!
surprise	tweets	@bobrules94: haha i know  it was super easy too. i sat at the toy counter and gave kids what little toy they wanted with they're tickets.
joy	tweets	Roxy was right. This palmade stuffs pretty cool
joy	tweets	Singstar  after stupid downloads finish ;(
joy	tweets	Hi this is http://gayorbispace.com We hope everybody is having a safe &amp; fun weekend
joy	tweets	@RiotGirl14 Sounds Fun!
joy	tweets	Thanks Synn!
joy	tweets	@AceArtemis7 well nothing. I can give you a pen.
joy	tweets	long, fun day  now for some relaxation. some TV with the mom, then sleeeep
surprise	tweets	Ready for tomorrow. My mommy will get her gift for Mother's Day. Hope she LOVES it!
joy	tweets	@kricket_rc234 good morning sushine!
joy	tweets	Busssssss with everyone!  yayyy!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	Just got home from dinner with my mommy and my new grandma. I'd rather be in Hollywood right now
joy	tweets	Art show at dee's place!! Woohoooo.
joy	tweets	just saw ghosts of girlfriends past with my bf, that movie was so predictable but so funny! i loved it
joy	tweets	@skotot Oh, that said, the sellout was a fluke. It turns out the projector was broken.   I still think the film is bloody good times, tho.
joy	tweets	Fun webcamming with caroooo
joy	tweets	i had a dream last night, and i was singing  first avid dream of myself crooning away!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wff3 - Got these pretty sweet stickers from @refyousuck
joy	tweets	@bbelle_ yeah, just knew him because of your link  HE'S COMPLETELY AMAZING AND HE SINGS PHANTOM!
joy	tweets	I am soo happy! Thank you baby for the best 1095 days of my life
surprise	tweets	@defeated possibly! NyQuil will get me through tonight though  Doctors Monday! (I hope for the swine, just so I can be on google maps)..jk
joy	tweets	@barnaby3 I saw them a few on this tour a few months ago in Boston. So good! Glad you finally got to see them
joy	tweets	@oliviathiem thank you. We had a blast
joy	tweets	Good show, sleepytime. Goodnight moon
joy	tweets	tiiiiiiired! Going to bed! Drinking leads to making out with boys, who you later forget their names.... Don't drink kids. Goodnight
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY 2 ME
joy	tweets	Korean music festival &lt;33 i miss you ): Hahaha sexy time ! (: &lt;3 Can't wait till SHINee ! LOL !
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight awww thanks Jon! My 9yr old told me I was to sleep in, while they all clean the house.. best mom's day present ever!
joy	tweets	love it when jonas brothers are in the trending topics. maybe taylors turn next
surprise	tweets	Leme put this bottle of ciroc in ya..Baby i can make you popular!!
surprise	tweets	@LoriGama That wouldn't have happened if Ravit hadn't asked me. I met her thru a Twitter friend in CT. Love social media that way.
joy	tweets	exhausted, sore and sunburnt. but I'm really happy
surprise	tweets	@mahhsaayyy imagine i would say&quot;bitch!&quot; lol if i were ma d! haha but im not cuz ur cool
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all my fellow Montreal Blockheads who are moms  I'll join the club...one day! LOL
joy	tweets	@alwayswyser Good night.
surprise	tweets	Jonas brothers concert  was greaattt
joy	tweets	Just starting integrating Twitter with Forexforums.org ... looks like a great partnership!  I welcome all to our chat room tomorow all day
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all you moms out there
surprise	tweets	@edenriegel Ur going 2 get tired of hearing from me, but I just saw a preview of ur movie Year One, and you were in it.  How funny. Yeah!
joy	tweets	Finishing this giraffe, then getting some sleep. Super excited about tomorrow!
joy	tweets	@kelsie_marie1 hey beautiful whats up?
joy	tweets	thinks the world would be a better place...with more cowbell.
joy	tweets	@tpaulding // your FACE is stupid.   thanks... i miss you too. HA!
joy	tweets	@arielm27 Happy happy birthday
joy	tweets	@ocell great to hear you saw Slumdog Millionaire! And yes, that's a Bollywood thing at the end
joy	tweets	@shufflebite im gunna juhs so its another way to talk ta yu  &lt;3
disgust	tweets	Listening to maylene and wondering why cant I pull off as many cool southern metal licks as them
joy	tweets	craving a king sized snickers
joy	tweets	Tomorrow is Mother's Day! What did you get for your moms?! If you don't have a gift, just tell her that you love her.
joy	tweets	@IlanRubin Freaking awesome job tonight! You seem to really be having a lot of fun. I have some pictures I wanna send you..
joy	tweets	@barrysma NEW motorcycle and you POPPED a cable already? wow-you ride HARD!
joy	tweets	@kellimiura I'll save the celebration until it's sent to my professor. I am proud that I wrote a 15 page paper though
joy	tweets	@janetleejohnson A rare treat b/c we're rarely ap and at 'em that early!  But we may make opening bell at the PDX Farmers Mkt a new goal.
surprise	tweets	The hair looks sicckkkk.  Happy mothers day to all the mothers!
joy	tweets	Come an add, new twitter.  Only for fans.
joy	tweets	@yfeandipoo I'm sooooo excited to see you also love.....let the craziness begin  7 daysssssss YAHOOOO
joy	tweets	Went to friend's house to watch some good old season 1 episodes of Supernatural &lt;3 Damn I love this show soo fucking much
joy	tweets	@ssnape Yes, though perhaps I wasn't thinking. I like vague. It seems a popper term for you.
joy	tweets	@Gilamuffin Sounds like a good time, very nice of you.  Did you see him, when he played at the Rio or Aladdin? I've seen him live, 3 times
joy	tweets	That's it. I'm hooked.
joy	tweets	@BoyceAvenue hey guys it's leann. . i dont know if you remember me but i just wanted to say that i'm very excited to see you guys go far
joy	tweets	Snoops uncle who was the COOLEST dancer EVER!!!!!!  http://twitpic.com/4wfqn
joy	tweets	@AboveAllFabric wow! you've been tweeting all night!! looks like you totally made up for the day
joy	tweets	is ur boyfriend better than mine? hell no!
joy	tweets	@robdyrdek my husband wears the same shirt all the time, think you can send some of that this way??
joy	tweets	@ChesterBaker Really laughing out loud! Seeing a limo in front of MacDonalds is just to funny!
joy	tweets	saturday night live is amazing &amp; makes me laff lalala  i will always love this show  timberlake's sketches are always funny &lt;3
joy	tweets	Beautiful day  Northwest River Park for Mother's Day then movie night. Church tomorrow is going to be insane! I can't wait
joy	tweets	and it's my birthday tomorrow. Everything worked fine w/that in the end Convinced her not 2 invite ppl she didn't know
joy	tweets	Watched The Rescuers Down Under with Dru and ate Mickey d's. This is how Disney sequels *should* be done
joy	tweets	@traceym75 Thanks! I will tell her my friends on Twitter say so.
joy	tweets	@CARAciao haha :S i started yesterday my dad helped me so much!!!
joy	tweets	@LaniNicole Yeh yeh. I would switch to Cingular, but I have more friends on T-Mobile. Free minutes, yo.
surprise	tweets	Never realized how good #Techmeme is until I actually read it (duh!) As an avid Tech Crunch reader, this is much better...
joy	tweets	@iamchrisc haha  cute. ps thanks for the reply made my day haha
joy	tweets	Star trek was SOOOOO AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Spock and Kirk were hillarious!!!  Im seeing it again. sooon.
joy	tweets	Home finally! Im soooo tired and kinda lonely now, blah but w.e I'll cuddle in some blankets and watch a movie by myself  sounds good. Lol
joy	tweets	trying to figure this twitter thing out!   I'm quite excited about it
joy	tweets	@stefanie504 She must have a very adwancrd sense of humor!  That's funny
surprise	tweets	@greenatelier awww wish I was there! Have a brew for me B!
joy	tweets	Barack Obama is a legend, just watched his dinner speach, it was pretty funny
joy	tweets	@m1dnightc1ty I do too!! Sounds interesting
joy	tweets	@melgreco thanks for coming in tonight  it made me so happy
surprise	tweets	@fiyahlilly Nice we didn't see the fireworks but we sure heard 'em
joy	tweets	@ticketranaway It's not sad. To tweet is to twitter, not someone misspronouncing a word kto make it fit a card.  I would have tweeted it.
joy	tweets	playing 20 questions with Chris
joy	tweets	@danielradcliffe Sunday and Mother's day!
joy	tweets	Looking forward for orange juice and fried eggs and cinnamon rolls tomorrow morning!!
joy	tweets	had a great night with friends
surprise	tweets	STAR TREK WAS PURE AWESOME! LOVE IT!!! &lt;3333 @elwhite It was so great seeing you!
joy	tweets	@MissJia  Word. Yayy twitter after dark lol.
joy	tweets	Baking experiment results: delicious, very sweet, very rich.  Almost too sweet.
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight awww such a sweetie. hope your mom has a wonderful mother's day too
joy	tweets	@mahhsaayyy haha! well im glad i made you feel better in your time of struggle
joy	tweets	Sturday night live
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight you &amp; chicken soup &amp; I'll be good!
joy	tweets	@chelsealitalien but you always have lee. Let's go to Paris
joy	tweets	wow i'm tired... going to bed, GOOD NIGHT
disgust	tweets	Nothing relaxing on a Saturday night!
joy	tweets	@LKnerl yes we must I had so much fun at SXSW with you guys  PJ party in my room
joy	tweets	Done studying bout the earth
joy	tweets	@CloverandBee YEA!! Way to go! Super excited for a great Midwest resource!!! Midwest pride!
joy	tweets	My laptop was being an idiot. Its back to normal now
joy	tweets	@kellykleinwi okay, thanks!
joy	tweets	Watching SNL. Awhh, Chris Pine is a cutieee
joy	tweets	TodaY was better. My Panda can eally cheer me up. I dont know, I am Happy, Like the legit happy.
joy	tweets	Ok all have hit the point of relaxation.. heading to bed  sleep well and Happy Mother's day to all you Moms out there!! Night
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	@bunnyrenee thank you
joy	tweets	May 10 is Human Kindness Day.
joy	tweets	@Werby76 oh suuuuuuuure...rub it in why don't ya!!!!!!!!! LOL Enjoy!
joy	tweets	Just finished down loading AIM6.9 and guess what! I can get updates from Twitter on it!  Message me at: i am katie arttt
joy	tweets	fun fun night  miss you. night tweets
joy	tweets	Just Another Mobile Monday is back online. There's two days I'll never get back.     http://tinyurl.com/ra48ye (via @justamonday)
joy	tweets	Fun is being had.
joy	tweets	I think I would be a good radio dj...I like awesome music and I have a great personality!!!!  ;) !!!   !!!
joy	tweets	making german apple slice  nom nom nom
surprise	tweets	@brutejonny works fine to me
joy	tweets	Just back from bingo w/family -- I won over $1100! Fun night
joy	tweets	@__Greer__ Hey Greer! I'm Marco! It's nice to talk with a fellow actor(ress) haha
joy	tweets	9:30pm and this grandma is going to sleep.  20ish Mother's Day reservations tomorrow...
surprise	tweets	@Miss604  okay for your Mom and My Mom too!
joy	tweets	Thank god for Starbucks
joy	tweets	@GoodNightIrene Thanks lady!!
joy	tweets	@Clara_miss my best friend won tickets to see them from kiis fm!
surprise	tweets	@janessapunani concert please explain? im intrigued
joy	tweets	@MISS_OTTAWA have fun!
surprise	tweets	@AlFerretti Uh, yeah.  Totally.  But then again, I am in real life too, sooooo....
surprise	tweets	@xVOJOx I didn't know you had a blog!!!  That's so awesome
joy	tweets	@katyperry the good life!!! - under a honeymoon
surprise	tweets	@Stacilynny Its tomorrow!!!!
joy	tweets	totally the best part of my day was studying with @beccahicklen  haha ok now i'm really leaving holly's and i'll be there shortly! peace!
joy	tweets	Working on our baseball fundraiser  Get 10% percent off Platium or Diamond wedding package if you let us know you saw us on Twitter!
joy	tweets	@abiFACE thanks for havin us overrr!
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight hey babe, happy to hear from you again on twitter  the today show was AMAZING!!
joy	tweets	I had so much fun tonight!! But i am soo excited to get home and go to sleep
joy	tweets	@Turrislove09 but i realllllllly want to. llike im really starting to hate PA. btw, i just messaged the great one known as dylan
joy	tweets	Painting is hard work. Very tired. But satisfying to see God's house getting prettier.  And I like the yellow of Tim's room.
joy	tweets	Prolly going to Jamba Juice in thirty minutes , shop for awhile then hit the airport and see my daddddd.
joy	tweets	Choir banquet was more than I could've ever dreamed.   I'm so happy! Now after party at Lauren's!!!
joy	tweets	@jessiemona mama the boys gon be sweating her hard in Pre K  lol muah
joy	tweets	is about to Camp Rock with @meltrev &amp; daddy  YAY!
joy	tweets	fireworks @ KBOOM concert... second best I've ever seen...preceded only by last year's show 2008 &lt;sigh&gt;
joy	tweets	@brotallybeh dude, was that you in the new Star Trek Burger King commercial? Bud Light AND Burger King? So proud of u man.
joy	tweets	@CompanyWoman haha i have 2 ask, are you 2 as beautiful as ur voices? curse u super cool beautiful women who are likely unavailable! lol
joy	tweets	@whiteangle We held out, Japanese people were making origami animals for Darcy   Had a great time, amazing place!
disgust	tweets	@heatedskates That may be, I still don't like hearing his name so much.   #blackhawks #canucks
joy	tweets	maybe he could drill a hole in me?  LOL    OH SNAP!  (sorry couldn't resist)
joy	tweets	Ok, 4 Star Trek fans have given the new movie good reviews  getting very excited!!!
joy	tweets	Think i'm going to go down to the lobby in a while to get either Starbucks or.. perhaps some ice cream
joy	tweets	mhmm idk i thought of just showing up and freaking ppl out hehe...but yeah i TOTALLY understand if it is just for u guys  VN sounds cool!!
joy	tweets	Will be going to Indiana Baptist Sunday, Pray for summer missionaries...
joy	tweets	@LeEyecandy hahaha. I think you're pretty far from me. Maybe next time though
joy	tweets	@gemstwin Granny, Linda will be happy.
joy	tweets	@aramos82 yes! the pool opened this weekend
joy	tweets	thinks castles are fun
joy	tweets	@MsKnitSox thanks amy, its full of hotness
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MOMMYS!!!!!!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	wooo...my luck is done
joy	tweets	Drinks &amp;&amp; din w/ Amy and Lori
joy	tweets	needs to escape from this town. getting ready. seeyuhhh.
joy	tweets	Welcome aboard to 5 new followers  Thanks, I'm honored.
joy	tweets	@lo_ferrigno YES!! YOU FTW!!!!! LMAO i wasnt watching
joy	tweets	had an awsome salad! I recommend getting the Spicey buffalo chicken salad!
joy	tweets	@TheWayIRoll HIII!!!!  i've missed you  just bored....what about u?
joy	tweets	@neeliemoo thats why im such an asshole
joy	tweets	omgoodness FINALLY back from dinner with the fam bam!
joy	tweets	NITE PEOPLES!!!!!
joy	tweets	Today is not lost
joy	tweets	@Jonasbrothers It is absolutely incredible. It's official: My FAVORITE JONAS is FRANKIE. He is the man
surprise	tweets	@VSchlesinger Hey, look who's on twitter   Very kewl
joy	tweets	another fun night!!  chilled wit my homie @ green turtle n the park....good times...good times.
joy	tweets	@remzology it was amazing but due to time constraints could only visit the meadows and pine forest. Shall post images later.
joy	tweets	@jark turn them off, you can still go 100% aero free.
joy	tweets	I had a GREAT night with Justine and the boys and all the westconn people I met tonight haha
joy	tweets	@oheather78 Sweet! I'm a Jaycee one-letter-er I think. Just D!
surprise	tweets	@lazakesau &quot;Graverobber, graverobber, sometimes I wonder why I even bother..&quot; Have fun tonight!
joy	tweets	@AlexAllTimeLow ohh snapp, have fun
joy	tweets	@littlemissgina I beat you to the punch!  #stickam
joy	tweets	@Merlene Cool! You're in the 5-figure-Tweeter Club.
joy	tweets	@HilHolla have fun on flashy fed hill..im sure you're imported cheeto eating ass will fit in lol
joy	tweets	@freshalina @itsmeAmerie Hey everyone! I just mixed the first single....!  &quot;Why R U&quot; ...I'm sooo excited!
joy	tweets	@kimberlynicole Yay!!! I'm so happy you got to meet her!
joy	tweets	@WeddingTresses what fun are you speaking of?
joy	tweets	@jefferycjordan Sounds good to me!  Taylor + Kellie on tour together is just pure genious!
joy	tweets	im determined to slarm around my house and eat egg sandwiches. and smoke a few bowls. sounds like a splendid evening to me
joy	tweets	@XKirstyxo haha  I love Dnt Regret It Now with Tyga &lt;3 But just randomly, DeLeon sings on Tifanny Blews! Haha like one line.. XD
joy	tweets	@ultraviolet10 the only thing I know about star trek is the joke from tina fey's twitter, &quot;may the 4th be with you&quot;
joy	tweets	What a great night.
joy	tweets	@J14magazine HaHa i Forgot...It'll Probably Be On Youtube...So I'll Watch It Later
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wgoi - At bus boys and poets ordering medici and white chocolate banana bread pudding @kspidel!!
joy	tweets	I love my job. getting some REAL sleep. Icing the birthday cake in the morning!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wgoq - The Beach was phenomenal 2day
surprise	tweets	@Belly9Maternity tooth fairy is coming to ur house tonight.
joy	tweets	@totallyapple Here, have fun with this: http://bit.ly/PlNm4
joy	tweets	#snl...you've gotten better  keep it up
joy	tweets	just got home from all states honors choir, the 9 hour drive payed off, it was amazinggggg!
joy	tweets	@KatieKatPink it's not a test to find cancer, it's just some stuff in regards to; in this case, positive results would be a good thing
joy	tweets	Just thinking that it will all pay off in the end.
surprise	tweets	@taytaystar when you come to me for plastic surgery, I hope you don't get in a car accident 6 days later
joy	tweets	I am off to bed now....my family has a wonderful day planned for me today      Happy Mother's Day
joy	tweets	@Ethan2Rock Thanks for the heads up, Ethan. Watching it now
joy	tweets	@clighty Invite them to your house instead
joy	tweets	ah! i almost missed snl. thanks twitterfriends
joy	tweets	@TheQuietOne35 so it went well.  Andrea
joy	tweets	I'm going to try &amp; get some sleep. I got work mostly all day &amp; I'm training for bakery also. Glammyyy crocker on deck. Lmao. Text or call
joy	tweets	going to bed.   goodnight
joy	tweets	@having hot cuppa coffee made with milk &amp; fortified with Monin's Irish Coffee syrup! Bliss!
joy	tweets	@daftlikejack it seems totally awesome to me! you know, two real reasons for celebrating.
joy	tweets	@_catchfire Happy Birthday Chip's sister
joy	tweets	Mm. Goodnight. Going to play Rock Band 2 'til it's time to watch SNL with Justin Timberlake.
joy	tweets	great day/night with my gabberss
joy	tweets	@mr_shiny Thanks for the heads-up. You're an hour ahead of me here.
surprise	tweets	@midnightbeadery Awww, thank you!  &amp; you're welcome lol
joy	tweets	@mikeprasad noticed that yesterday too...i'm actually really happy about that  #StarTrek
joy	tweets	@jennettemccurdy WILL DO!! (of will did?? lol ) great episode
joy	tweets	@iamdakota oh cool you're gonna be in van ? thats cool i live in victoria. well ur pree awesome girl
joy	tweets	@karlixpaz Hmm... it's a miracle you're using twitter, and it's fun... so... Tweet!
joy	tweets	@anyamarina that was funny! LOVED IT! I almost fell for it. Haha
surprise	tweets	officially my birthday  so i guess after 21 the novelty of a birthday wears off..?
joy	tweets	@flomingo that sounds cool! post video!!
joy	tweets	@AlohaZen do u hav a garden? bunny probs r decidedly uncool.   thanks 4d link!
joy	tweets	So much news on more Android based devices - especially on T-Mobile. I'm all giddy and can't wait  (starts saving up) #android #tmobile
joy	tweets	@Warmnfuzzy Re-direct that energy into creating men's jewelry.    And frequent walks too.
joy	tweets	@djskee not there but wish I were
joy	tweets	@mahnameisjerik0 THANK YOU
joy	tweets	@stellery Thanks!  Got tired of bleaching it. The, um, bangs there... yeah they are actually a bit purple &gt;_&gt; oopsie.
joy	tweets	Subway always tastes better when some-one else pays for it  http://tinyurl.com/re5s5h
joy	tweets	writing a song
surprise	tweets	@pepperlive Who doesn't know who The Supervillians are Fails. I saw you both in January at The Warfield in SF.  LEGIT SHOW FOR SURE.
joy	tweets	@Nora_78 Elaine's my online mommy too. She gives good advice.
joy	tweets	I am back from the best party ever
joy	tweets	@promisetangeman you are such a beautiful bride! you're gonna love the married life. it absolutely rocks! congrats to you both.
joy	tweets	@alterna180 i sorry sweetpea... almost over with!
joy	tweets	Sunday morning
joy	tweets	happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	on my way home from ny...then sleeping
joy	tweets	@AKGovSarahPalin would love a slice of summer from Piper's lemonade stand! do you think i could have a jump on her trampoline too?
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wh0o - My mommys gummy mothers day posterrr!
joy	tweets	just got home from the City Lights show  yeahhh!
surprise	tweets	making mother's day gift
joy	tweets	Didn't meet Rosie O Donnell but it was still a fun night
joy	tweets	@ConcreteLoop @RapUp @itsmeAmerie Hey everyone! I just mixed the first single....!  &quot;Why R U&quot; ...I'm sooo excited!
joy	tweets	Yup, I'm pretty sure summer could not have started off any better than the one this year
joy	tweets	@ninjen Really enjoying Drown in My Own Tears
joy	tweets	wants @jubliantJO to come back online so that he can talk about all the gossip and horrible things which transpired today.
joy	tweets	@SEPIS haha...it the booomb
joy	tweets	Had an awesome pedicure today!!
joy	tweets	@MrCartersNurse  congratulations for your mom for tomorrow ! buenas noches
joy	tweets	@DawnRichard Let's go!
joy	tweets	@HeatherNKOTBFan Knight...sweet dreams.
joy	tweets	@xVOJOx It's kind of like learning as you go...the blog thing, and Twitter, too!
joy	tweets	@angelbear7 Getting back online, now. Just shifting locations!
joy	tweets	just got out of the pool!!   so fun..now gonna watch tv and do stuff on the computer. (:
joy	tweets	Happy mama's day to all the mamas.
joy	tweets	@beccamorte Oooh, neat!  Yes, SF has such good food.  Again, so jealous of all you SF people.
surprise	tweets	I made an animated holiday card thingy. http://is.gd/yjpq - Shh. Don't tell mom yet. It's a surprise.
joy	tweets	btw. ear is getting better! its about time! finally - i say goodnight twitter world, (even though y'all are already asleep). xoxo
joy	tweets	Congratulation's to phil packer on completing the london marathon  x a shining example to us all x
joy	tweets	@AllanGoesDMB I listen to it alot at work.  Damn good show!
joy	tweets	finally got my own set of keys for the store. how should i celebrate?
surprise	tweets	Today was definitely a good day, had fun! Gunna try to get ahead on school now, so text me! &lt;3
surprise	tweets	@lethebashar That would panic me a little!  Maybe you can read on an orbitron at the gym like I do...when all else fails?!?
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day.. To All The MommiiEs Owt Theaa... &amp; ii Think ii Got Thaa Hang Of ThiiS ThiiNg.. Yay!!!
joy	tweets	live long and prosper !  lol star trek was the best!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4whaf Tonight's art show was a success.
joy	tweets	happy happy joy joy    is that good enough for you
joy	tweets	is wishing good night everybody
joy	tweets	Birthday was awesome!On video:my daughter opening last gift screaming in joy, &quot;My  Birthday Wish Came True !!&quot;couldn't have been better.
joy	tweets	@TinaS71 It was fun meeting you too Tina!  We'll definitely do it again soon.
joy	tweets	feeling nice... got a big ass smile on my face for no reason  @mralister take my ass to sleep right? lol
joy	tweets	Goodnight. Actually, great night. Seeing Daniel tomorrow!
joy	tweets	@Jesse_Attack thanks dude!
joy	tweets	I miss @lavren cant wait until June for HIL HANGZ~ Tonight was sososo good
joy	tweets	I forgot I set my iTunes to display by play count last night. I didn't understand why Taylor Swift was in front of Belinda. Haha.
joy	tweets	Roommate gone. All of Moyer away at the Ball. I'm definitely going to be naked for the next 11 hours
joy	tweets	happy motherss dayyyy  so my sister decided to make lunch...hmph. but i decorated the house !  andd then i danced and sang hahaa
joy	tweets	@AlexAllTimeLow Happy Mother's Day hahaha
joy	tweets	I'm not going to lie, I'm loving the Ace of Cakes  wooop! LOST!
joy	tweets	Just finished watching the last of Star Wars
surprise	tweets	@JohnLloydTaylor I love my mom tooo
joy	tweets	happpppy mothers day
joy	tweets	@AClockworkToad awww! thats sweet TTT!  Im sure she will love it! your a good son!
joy	tweets	finally, holiday.
joy	tweets	@dbgrady lol that was a great movie
joy	tweets	Time for me to go to sleep! It's almost 1am. Night everyone! Happy mothers day to all the moms out there
surprise	tweets	getting back from smackdown/ecw show
joy	tweets	@imsomiami86 i been coolin and shit ya know me
joy	tweets	@hokutokonishi which means you're just going to have to come back to vancouver and have it our way! hahah
joy	tweets	@rachamin well thank your phone for me.
joy	tweets	going to sleep. big beach day tommorow. love you guys. nite.
joy	tweets	o/*\o (high five) to all of our fans! It's finally here! I'll write up a fancy news post shortly, wanted to get the mod itself out ASAP
joy	tweets	@jholden23 we'll test that theory  with no right arm to strum with.  Got a feelin I'll be humming my new tunes for a while
joy	tweets	@dtatusko thx. will do.  you always make me chatty! night!
joy	tweets	@TXP2 hi there, nice to meet you
joy	tweets	Great meeting...lunch on the patio in the sunshine...nothing more perfect  busy day...time for bed, ahhhhh
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MOMMYS EXSPECIALLY MINE  LOVE YOU MOMMY
joy	tweets	Had the super massive sandwich mom made last night,Ohh. It was yummy.. Btw, Happy Mother's Day mom!!
surprise	tweets	@AnnyChih Im sure theres a pamphlet out there somewhere  (Oh, foods pretty good too)
joy	tweets	@DCMA_MEXICO Hey hey. No problem.
joy	tweets	@xennyeh Sure, I'll be in chat in a sec   Here's the thread http://tinyurl.com/ojcf5l
joy	tweets	@sydeni_f_babei best two seconds of the movie
joy	tweets	chai tea then sleeeeeeep. lunch with the family tomorrow
joy	tweets	@LeonceN I have it.  Hehehehe u want the torrent?
surprise	tweets	1 month 3 wks till the big day!   ~CSH
joy	tweets	Thank you guts for 360 followers! It means a lot!
joy	tweets	@Ginchan: AWW! Thank you honey.. Didja get mommy a daddy?
joy	tweets	@StreetPaparazzi  whenever you are mama!  Let's do it
joy	tweets	@RonDance **Jaw Drops** **Gasp** Whatever do u mean? I'm as sweet as pie  Allow me to re-introduce myself, I'm Coach &amp; I'm a Cancer &amp; u?
joy	tweets	Taco Bell With The Tramp!Yesssssir
surprise	tweets	watching SNL with guess Justin Timberlake...OMG! He is too funny!  hahahah
joy	tweets	Im glad i can make sumone smile
joy	tweets	hanging with amber.
joy	tweets	@lovejones83 haha LOL  no one is effing cool as you, you got the Wu-Tang and P.E. t-shirts! You are gorgeous + represent at the same time
joy	tweets	@JanisJ1212 haven't laughed that much in awhile
joy	tweets	about to drink a hot chocolate  yummy.
joy	tweets	@dearsarah420 well you can  lol
joy	tweets	things are looking better and better! i think i might be quite happy
surprise	tweets	@FreshAssNess I think i'm falling in love with you!!  xxx #iloveyou
joy	tweets	Just had some delicious sushi from niko niko on vermont and hollywood  mm
joy	tweets	@Rick_Tarrant nice! It's mommas day
surprise	tweets	@NathanFillion awesome
joy	tweets	Throwin' down in the kitchen like I do  making Rah's illi Chili and Shalonda's Bangin Cake
joy	tweets	@Boomstone Thanks and Cheers back at you.
joy	tweets	overall, tonight's snl = epic win.
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY to my Mom, and every Mom everywhere.  Off for a stroll at the Beaches later--hopefully...
joy	tweets	@MatthewHass008 Love that she couldn't just stop with one picture! First one is priceless, but the speedo is great, too.  Kudos to mom.
joy	tweets	just had a great dinner with my wonderful girlfriend.
joy	tweets	@Mingo123 SUFFICATION NO BREATHING. It's okay. There'll be more. You're invited to mine, but I can't promise fun times.  *Jinx
joy	tweets	@bellesouth Thanks!  Your name strikes me every time I see it, as a friend of mine uses belofsouthie as her email
joy	tweets	@oschmid14 How cool is that!   Thank you so much!   luv it!
joy	tweets	@ktique so see you on my birthday visit me  haha why wack Saturday ?
joy	tweets	I've got Isabel now to get some food!
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's day! Going to cook something, thank goodness there's tablespotting
joy	tweets	Playing with my puppy
joy	tweets	I love my Boogah! Can anyone contain Lebron James?  Talk about so sick
joy	tweets	Tribal Cafe.  Watermelon slush.  Natalie singing.  Ashley&quot;s birthday.  Love all around
joy	tweets	@TimJackson LOL I can imagine you doing that. Ken said to let you know he agreed with a gazillion percent of what was being said.
joy	tweets	just got out of prom, it was fun  off too after prom text me
joy	tweets	can't wait to watch the next season of heroes
joy	tweets	I want cookies for breakfast! Luckily I'm an adult and can do that!
joy	tweets	&quot;i hear its wonderful in california.&quot;
joy	tweets	&quot;I want you in my mouth and my butthole b!tch&quot; mm jeffree rawks
joy	tweets	@urban_asher better.  That wasn't one of my better summaries
joy	tweets	@jimmyfallon you &amp; justin were really funny tonight on SNL!
joy	tweets	Enjoyed Star Trek... More please
joy	tweets	LOL OMG @MissKeriBaby replied back to me out of all ppl!! THX
joy	tweets	lol! woow okay its not that big of a deal
joy	tweets	happy mother's day everyone
joy	tweets	Anthony's pretty wicked too.
joy	tweets	@jimmyfallon Saw you on SNL with your diploma..Congrats. You must be overjoyed.   Now I am finally going to bed..NITE
joy	tweets	Tired as hell...long ass weekend so far, chillin wit mi madre 2moro
joy	tweets	Cleaning my roooooooooom, about to continue playing with my DSI
joy	tweets	@kindlejunkie Hey! I need that book to go with my Amy Sedaris.  @cheesivore is finishing it now, you say? ;)
joy	tweets	Everyone At My Place Tomorrow  Bonfire, Tofu Dogs, And Austin Powers.
surprise	tweets	@dougstech Isn't he awesome?? There are tons more coming, that was just one of three locations
joy	tweets	@laurenmontonen I DIDDDD. I MET THEM AGAIN
joy	tweets	Finally able to get Flight Control for my Ipod. Best game app! 123  Damn choppers lol
joy	tweets	@ztnewetnorb yes yes yes lotsa fun  i cant wait. dont like make up with shaun too much in front of me tho cos ill get awkard haha
joy	tweets	P9 for Danica and your team... Not a end of the world, now is just hopes for a great race
surprise	tweets	@sporkbot Wasn't it totally awesome?  Seeing the rebooted crew was so nice!
joy	tweets	Just watched Star Trek. A+! That was so well done. I think I'm down to see it again. Who wants to join me?
surprise	tweets	@shaundiviney Sweeny Todd is deadset one of the best movies of all time
joy	tweets	@dmaul53854 yus! :3 he was really nice
joy	tweets	@tarynromanowich I understand  Computers are fun again!
joy	tweets	Home. Tired. Phone then bed.   Good night tweeters, happy mothers day!
joy	tweets	Off to bed - I have a hot date with Sudoku and maybe a chapter or two reading if I can stay awake that long. Have a great night tweeps!
joy	tweets	@TaraPants Road trip to Cincy to the limb store!!!!
joy	tweets	having coffee with bread. peanut butter today!
joy	tweets	@WordyDirts Thanks  your my first lol
joy	tweets	@Vengenz1 It was a lovely attempt at poetry!
joy	tweets	Sunday my last day at apple but I won't be in. Come kick it with me at El FAROLITO 4817 mission street @ 730pm
joy	tweets	watching greys anatomy and just about to take blueberry muffins out of the oven mmm yummy  finished geoggers study notes yay!!
joy	tweets	@MelissaSuzanne ha I think I got like two hours of sleep last night and I have an early start tomorrow, so chillin and sleep is needed!
joy	tweets	loving phuket with melai and badette. i'll be coming home soon  imiss everyone
joy	tweets	@MariahCarey thanks you soo much i need this day for these five kids lol
joy	tweets	ok.  i got my nails done to day an the are sweet.
joy	tweets	Awake, man, i need to go to sleep, i gots to wake up early for church tomorow.
joy	tweets	@Jaimie_tv LOL no girl I'm only 17! Too young for college! But yay congrats to us  where does downtown graduate at?
joy	tweets	@Djsparkx lmao yeaa iight n u shuld put tha c.b flick up w. Panties on ur head .. juss a joke
joy	tweets	LOVED AP Tour in Columbus, OH last night! I'm still exhausted! Goin to bed now so sweet dreams!! gnight!!
joy	tweets	perkinz..  idk wat after dat tho. maybe sum SEX. lol
joy	tweets	@MeredthSalenger Ur so cute..I'm a fan of Dream A Little Dream, This Kiss and appearances like in Dawson's Creek  Make more flicks!
joy	tweets	P9 for Danica and your team... Not the end of the world, now is just hopes for a great race
surprise	tweets	@mandiengram Ha! Did she find out? The only thing Google came up with was some database acronym and &quot;dibbs&quot; on the front seat aka shotgun
surprise	tweets	@chrisfromracine That's for sure. That's why I intentionally turn my thought processes to the silly
joy	tweets	Rey Mysterio is so awesome
joy	tweets	@princessdeleon AWESOME! It feels very fulfilling, doesn't it?  I'm gonna work on SOOOO many people over the summer! Totally excited!
joy	tweets	just woke up, having coffee, listening to Music, reading RSS...Sunday feels great
joy	tweets	just had an awesome Girl Scout Day at Dodger stadium with two awesome olympic athletes Joanna Hayes and Heather Bown!  And we won!
joy	tweets	beach...yummy steak and catching up on 'lost' with my man...lovely day
joy	tweets	When I start cloggin up my own Twitter feed, it's time for me to go to bed.. Nighty night. Be sure to go to the TweetUp and meet ME!
joy	tweets	@CiaoBella50 Evening! How are you this Sat night?
joy	tweets	Mom is wearing shrug I bought her 2morrow...I can't wait 2 c her n it..cute
joy	tweets	@meesabythewater thank you so much
joy	tweets	@LindzluvsNKOTB I'm not going on the cruise. Wish I was, but I'm just going on vacation. Thanks though
joy	tweets	Come on Vancouver. Throwing stuff onto the ice? I thought you Canucks were supposed to be all polite and stuff?
joy	tweets	making margaritas and about to watch Milk. Good times
joy	tweets	to overcome whatever darts the enemy may try and stop you with. We've gotta stay focused tweetz!  God bless you.
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight het there r u finished cleaning your pond? u shouldn't stay too long u will get all wrinkled up!! kidding
joy	tweets	Just ordered henna! I'll be a redhead again in a few weeks.
joy	tweets	About to watch the Star Trek movie
joy	tweets	off to bed, I will have pics of the newly finished hat in the afternoon! yea its all done  Night yall!
joy	tweets	@Dog_EaredPages Yay!  I can't wait to come in the bookstore and gets some new books
joy	tweets	@em1234 hahhaha indeed  kinda like the spoon... hahaha
joy	tweets	@johncmayer That widewale courduroy'll get ya everytime!
joy	tweets	is drinking. Yay!
joy	tweets	Landon now announces, &quot;Big poopy coming!&quot; every time. I'm just waiting for him to yell that in a store for the first time
joy	tweets	@SouthPhilly_Mel thanks that was nice of u and I appreciate u
joy	tweets	Ah! Just remembered some (hopefully good) news is coming (hopefully soon) from someone I know... once again may the *happydance* commence
joy	tweets	i look like a horse in my sam's club card picture because i couldn't find my hair brush. hahaha possibly getting noah tomorrow
joy	tweets	@NightShade10 Wooops! Meant I agree with Boomstone..trying 2 reply 2 both, LOL. Happy Mothers Day to you as well!  TTY soon!
joy	tweets	Watching the Twins handle the Mariners again!! Whoo-hoo!!!  Tony http://www.trustyfotografie.com
joy	tweets	@islandidea We knew what what you meant!
surprise	tweets	Omg amazing twist! This is a crazy awesome movie
joy	tweets	@AClockworkToad yw, it gets really hot there in the middle of the summer like 110+ but right now its perfect! and less then an hour away.
joy	tweets	@QueenofSpain Good night Erin!  i wouldn't say that this is early or that you are old.
joy	tweets	good times haha ily christian and mo  gonna watch dazed and confused in a while ha also my first time watching it ha im so lame
joy	tweets	@facit Hahaha. No, I haven't. I think I'll reserve it for next weekend. Have some paperwork to do. Or maybe tonight!
joy	tweets	that was reallly good
joy	tweets	Spending QT with the hubby
joy	tweets	haha so bored...but happy mothers day!
joy	tweets	Going to bed! Happy mother's day for every mom here!
joy	tweets	@Buchautor thanks for the follow friday
disgust	tweets	@PurpleFoodie yeah...I hope it turns out... 20 more minutes!
joy	tweets	@ashleynewcomb Oh yeah, lots of rambly goodness. LOL You have mail.  Bed? This is early for me. ;) Probably why I'm an insomniac, huh?
joy	tweets	@laurenconrad http://twitpic.com/4wh4d - LAUREN is AMAZING....well from what I see on the hills lol  Seem like a great friend to have!!
joy	tweets	Such a good little Saturday. Didn't include Bed Bath and Beyond, but Borders was on the list. Can't wait for tomorrow. Good day planned
surprise	tweets	awesome night in the city
joy	tweets	Playing cards with my niece.
joy	tweets	we finally hit 1,000 friends! thanks!
joy	tweets	hey chelsee its amiera!   &lt;ufc&gt;
surprise	tweets	omg patron is 1ofmy FAVS  @NOEL4PRESIDENT im so jealous icant do 10 but i can do 5 so make it 15  so serious im in alabama visitin fam
joy	tweets	watching &quot;Look for a Star&quot; with mom again  lub ah C hehe
surprise	tweets	@TheBeatles Time to reissue all @TheBeatles albums on vinyl!  yesss! that would be fab! fab! fab!
joy	tweets	@VancityAllie they shall win
joy	tweets	Hanging with kevin tomorrow!  out goes being productive.
joy	tweets	In weho! They're are playing a lot of brit
joy	tweets	@artistiquemeg wooohooo! I'm fourth row back
joy	tweets	Awesome  I saw it thursday night. It is so great. 100% perfect casting.
joy	tweets	Watching Twilight again  !!! &lt;3 I'm watching the Audio Commentary, it's sooo funny ;)
joy	tweets	writing out mother's day cards to mom, aunts, and AMYYYY can't wait for her to be a mommy
joy	tweets	i want to sleep XD !!!! but i have a song in my head that make me crazy and dont know if i write the song or not hahhaha
joy	tweets	@Jasonniu thanks!!  my friends and I went and watched movies and ate chocolate chip pancakes at one of my friends' house. it was fabulous!
joy	tweets	Is having awesome fruits and vegetable juice at the opening of Lam's noodles at 8@tradehub21  http://tinyurl.com/r65c68
joy	tweets	I promised to update my twitter every now and then. LOL Greet your mom by simply saying YOUR HOT
joy	tweets	@MollyMazy aww!  happy mother's day to you too girlie! kingston is lucky to have such a great mommy!
joy	tweets	just finishing studying for LSATs and watching VH1 Soul
joy	tweets	Celebrated 18,000 plays on Last.fm with Dez Moines by #tdwp http://bit.ly/GWUHX
joy	tweets	This is cool!
joy	tweets	Friends are gone. Sushi, movies, laughter. Just what I needed. FUN!
joy	tweets	If I'm up with Brooklyn when I'm suppose to sleep in...I'll call you  @ LadyBug602
surprise	tweets	@chiwhitesox i need 2 b getting 2 sleep 4 the night. Have a good sunday
joy	tweets	I received some excellent birthday presents!  Party was the usual success.
joy	tweets	@scalzi Happy frickin' birthday!  Try not to be too bitter about sharing your day with your lovely wife and all other mothers out there.
joy	tweets	{cont} that right their is why fake btches shouldnt mess with Real ones... ahhh I love it Real btches excite me
surprise	tweets	@DanielJeffreys we won't be home till like next month
joy	tweets	Here come the Hawks, the mighty Blackhawks!!
joy	tweets	@bsaeed it was nice to meet you tonight &amp; thanks!!
joy	tweets	@angelemotion yayyy for new videos by amazing people
joy	tweets	@EADave HEY HEY ready to come to oklahoma?
joy	tweets	@camikaos pheasant dreams, kaotic ones
joy	tweets	Hangin out with some cool ass people.  http://short.to/8j3p
joy	tweets	@bingofuel Why yes, we did see @CaryWilliams tonight. Delicious dinner by chef Geoff chez A-Lo/G-Mo.  Hope to see him again pre-departure
joy	tweets	She has an awsome voice. Bored nothin to do i should really consider  going back to school yeah right i'd rather cry of boredom  forever
surprise	tweets	@gregbd you can explore the site 2 and find cool stuff
joy	tweets	silly you are right here with me
joy	tweets	@patricklanglois http://twitpic.com/4w52z - i bet you ate and missed the brazilian bbq  and i also bet you guys played wii (mostly bec ...
joy	tweets	@Scorch_Mom Emailed you - it'll be on the porch anytime. If you come tomorrow, we'll have to miss you! Don't worry about knocking!
joy	tweets	@alphonso I'm in SF right now
joy	tweets	watching Season 2, episode 1 of House before bed... what a great bedtime story
joy	tweets	Looking forward to having Dinner with Family and Friendsss! Happy Mothers Day to all the Moms out there!
surprise	tweets	Had a fun late night talk with @koerter  Good night world.
surprise	tweets	@AspaPhoto Ahhhh \you are soo smart  Thanks for this schooling of thoughts
joy	tweets	@Im_2nd aww thanks!
joy	tweets	time for The Great Yakuza Horror Theatre, wish me luck
joy	tweets	Its good to have an old friend at ur new job. Another good day at work. Paycheck day will be even better
joy	tweets	i wanna watch tormented. it's showing on May 22
joy	tweets	Is watching &quot;It takes Two&quot;.... such a classic lol
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	and goodnight, twitterland! hope all of your weekends are going great!
joy	tweets	I would rather end up heart broken then have regret because i didnt take a chance
joy	tweets	Ate too much vegetarian pizza for dinner! But it was so good
joy	tweets	is having awesome fruits and vegetable juice at the opening of Lam's noodles at 8@tradehub21  #fb http://tinyurl.com/qnjqx2
joy	tweets	JUST GOT TO LA  MISS HAWAII ALREADY! DANG
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	@jlee07 Thanks for the following and support!!!   &lt;3
joy	tweets	@David_Henrie hahaha. you make me laugh.
joy	tweets	Finished practicing for today. A bit tired.  http://tinyurl.com/pypof6
joy	tweets	WHOA! Twilight the board game! AAAHAHA
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	whole foods, barton springs, yogurt spot &amp; the oasis = perfect day in austin.
joy	tweets	Working out and watching snl
joy	tweets	i'm eating cookies that have been sitting around for a week now. thanks andrea dear
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	Why am I posting so late? Just got back from seeing Star Trek. It was so awesome
joy	tweets	watching a youtube vid of @jonasbrohters sing paranoid live  @njbond007 is so cute when he sings lol
joy	tweets	Waiting to go to bed. Had a great weekend
joy	tweets	@merabobera I wantttt!!!!!!!!
joy	tweets	living it up at empire hotel...free bottle service. it ROCKS having connections
joy	tweets	Looks like i can go see jeffree star afterall. I told my dad he'd hate the music &amp; he said i could go alone
joy	tweets	twittering after 2 days!
joy	tweets	@AspaPhoto Ahhhh \you are soo smart  Thanks for this schooling of thoughts  Have you taught before?
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	Home. Should be in the bed, but I'm just super duper excited about tomorrow.
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
joy	tweets	had fun at wango tangooo!
joy	tweets	had a fun day at the theatre... glad to be back in town for a while
surprise	tweets	@Gosssy I'm good.
surprise	tweets	@temmy_ Sounds like you got a fan in Danstorce.
joy	tweets	@ishaka Thanks
joy	tweets	@ubernostrum I really ought to pay more attention to my phone tweets... Sure! The more moives the better.
joy	tweets	@AguyfrTX I know, thx  But I'll be ok.
surprise	tweets	@shanselman http://twitpic.com/4ve84 - Wow! A nice laptop
disgust	tweets	@rhixz16 nothing much, juss really bored! hbu?
joy	tweets	@DixonTam maybe I have a different impression. It's entirely possible
joy	tweets	@officialTila yeah twitter is a lot of fun babe... especially when you've got ppl to talk to! lol &amp; that sounds Goooooood lol
joy	tweets	Woo! Nachos AND ice cream  haha
joy	tweets	Hey guys I'm going to create an iPhone app that's a twitter client called Tweetilicious please @reply me your thoughts!
joy	tweets	@petitesuitecb Thanks my girl. True BFF!
joy	tweets	That was a fun show. Grabbing a bite to eat now.
joy	tweets	@MCRsavedMilife haha yes
surprise	tweets	I just love it when  hot policemen come into my work
joy	tweets	@fatally_yours that's stunning!
surprise	tweets	is getting baptized tomorrow  and is a college graduate.  Busy weekend!
joy	tweets	oh the memories  ? http://blip.fm/~5yxd4
joy	tweets	@omgbas i'm watching CQC a brazilian humor program
joy	tweets	can't stop smiling  i'm in the best mood right now!!!!!
joy	tweets	Enjoyed x-men w/ @dwestbrook  now it's time to rest up for this drive home...happy mother's day twit-moms!!!
surprise	tweets	@nagelamy The guns not working eh?
joy	tweets	@redonculous video tape that for me  hahaha
joy	tweets	@AspaPhoto I am the same... well peer trained, peer taught, peer learning
joy	tweets	Good nite everybody!  &lt;:Baby Boy:&gt;
joy	tweets	@HOLLYWOODTONI. Okay kool... I might be touring all summer long but we can make it happen!
surprise	tweets	oh and I got my haircut today. I looove it
joy	tweets	@AmandaGearSolid OMG! It's the famous Amanda woman person thingy!  HUGS ALL AROUND!
joy	tweets	@duherica Thanks!
surprise	tweets	@Tina_Marie_2009 Glad to hear you're quitting. I hope it works out! Also, thanks for the sweet mother's day card. Made me smile.
joy	tweets	it's beach time!
joy	tweets	&quot;NAPPY'S&quot; da new &quot;N&quot; word....by da way, iLove my &quot;NAPPY&quot; braids  iGot &quot;HANG-TIME&quot; homie lol
joy	tweets	Just got out of the VAST show &amp; IT KICKED ASS! Just as mindblowing live as on CD. Sang my fave songs. Im n awe!
joy	tweets	is excited for tonight's party of ron  http://plurk.com/p/sujth
joy	tweets	aww my son gave me a purple g shock for mother's day
surprise	tweets	@digitalproduct anytime buddy  I c u @ 701!
joy	tweets	Is working out the twitter kinks
joy	tweets	&quot;dream of a better world because it's coming&quot; -someone could live off of those words dude
joy	tweets	@SamBennington  cool  you are here too  hi sam  how are you???
joy	tweets	Aim:iloveshawniedur
joy	tweets	@animeshiredane Okay, as long as you're all right.
joy	tweets	@sara3isenough hahah that is hilarious!  when my b/f washes them they usually don't fit the bed anymore.  either that or they turn pink
joy	tweets	good day, ya'll! happy mom's day!
joy	tweets	*[ It's time for TSCC!  ]
surprise	tweets	@aussiecynic it's been hectiv runny around after the women but goof  just making them both a surprise now
joy	tweets	just watched Star Trek.. I liked it  I'm making my mother a card and listening to some tunage, Copeland to be exact ;]
joy	tweets	@Rachecullen yesh. lawl
joy	tweets	Just had an amazinq qirls-niqht-out. I quess its always qreat to have an excuse to wear tiny dresses &amp; heels
surprise	tweets	@veganza Been there, done that!!  Ew!!
joy	tweets	@TBHA aww , its ok,we ended up getting in later than expected and didnt go...I would of called you if we were able to, ...C U N Austin,
joy	tweets	@AClockworkToad I will take lots of pics! it is really pretty there, lots of palm trees.
surprise	tweets	wow officially i have no life this month! LOL my friends dont believe me when i say they need to BOOK IN ADVANCE!
joy	tweets	there's not many things better than sleeping with my windows open
joy	tweets	I'm an incredibly happy person with 100% energy. Love to dance &amp; laugh...the only thing that I know.I'm one of the most down to earth ppl
joy	tweets	Curled up in bed now... going to wind down with some #G1 solitaire .   goodnight twitterland!
joy	tweets	@osdawaya That's not too bad.  Good luck!
joy	tweets	@caitlinpasko awesome  have you played there before?
joy	tweets	today was the BEST &lt;3 eff yeah i &lt;3 @ohbabyitsashley
joy	tweets	They never cease to amaze me.
joy	tweets	@J0HNNYWYATT amazing tonight glad I could share it with you baby. You are my sunshine
joy	tweets	@babyvtec lol - that's what hubby's are there for, to think their wives are nuts.
surprise	tweets	watching What Happens In Vegas!
joy	tweets	We should have a twitter reunion it would be awesome to meet you all lol, iwonder howd iget that to pull off
joy	tweets	he's here   sleep over with the MR. night peeps !
surprise	tweets	@DamienCripps if hobo and i come next week, we're buying you all a drink.
joy	tweets	Cheifs beat the 'Canes 16-8! Top of the table! Wooo! ...and up go the Sky Sport Virtual Rugby points.
surprise	tweets	Plain White T's and Sara Bareilles...can life get more amazing
joy	tweets	@Escape2TheStars it's ok.  I'll have reached 3,000 tweets and be in dreamland by then so have a good sleep!! talk later.
joy	tweets	@_writersblock_ Yep! One drink &amp; @retrorewind block party is keeping me up
joy	tweets	@Lady12s Here's some healing/sleep energy, sweetie!
joy	tweets	@mileycyrus YOU GAVE A GOOD SPEECH AT THE BREAST CANCER FOR REVLON FOR WOMEN TODAY
joy	tweets	This is cool  http://yfrog.com/097dfj
joy	tweets	@DefyGravity81 oooooooh I KNO  EEEEEEEKKKKKKK! @coriluvthedon ROCKS!! &gt;
joy	tweets	welcome to the family new pillow  im going to lay my head on you tonight!!!
joy	tweets	just downed 10 live abalone sashimi with 2 bottles of sake with father-in-law.  Very happy
joy	tweets	@celikins Yup, us too. Spending time with Mom, Sis and Aunt  Have A great Mothers Day!
surprise	tweets	@purple_cath a couple of years  I knew you had one but I couldn't find you for awhile..here you are!
joy	tweets	Tired from work. I hate closing, eek. But all smiles today. Aloha Kitchen, yum.
joy	tweets	@mateoonline I'm sure u did!!! CAN'T w8 4 2morrows shw!!! Happy Mommys day 2 me!!!
joy	tweets	@nerdwriter we were close to trying all of them! SO YUMMY
joy	tweets	Having bro-lights with g.Soll  CHEERS!  http://twitpic.com/4wjrs
joy	tweets	@erzonline Thanx... sorry not trying to rub it in... I just get excited... been working hard to make that dream come true for awhile
disgust	tweets	I think I might have to call it a night. Getting that falling feeling, need to fall into bed. Night, night, tweople!
joy	tweets	I love ridding in this weather
joy	tweets	Finally off work...long night.  Hangin with @KrispySwiggs
surprise	tweets	@leightonmarissa the new song with cobra starship is amazing!!
joy	tweets	Just got home from Stacey's lovely wedding
joy	tweets	@roflwolf yeah they are basically awesome
joy	tweets	@stmako Yup. Most of my hacks are all for fun  Here's a quick video I made of it. I'll follow up when it's done.  http://bit.ly/3xm7D
joy	tweets	@TomboyTigress thanks  sweet dreams to you too!
joy	tweets	@jefebarrio it was put on by our neighborhood, so just a little one. Like 25 runners. I got 1st place, with an okay time. I was happy.
joy	tweets	Is one bar two of the pub crawl... Gonn be a long night
joy	tweets	my life is so exhilerating  family kingdom is such a good summer sport!!! and so is swimming in the ocean at night with kristin
joy	tweets	@heycassadee One of the fake &quot;you&quot;s followed me. Haha. I so wish it would be you instead!
joy	tweets	had a great day
surprise	tweets	@mens_STYLE  I like it
joy	tweets	@mdjensen I'm a little late but congratulations on your 1st tri, it's a great accomplishment...good night
joy	tweets	@Hatz94Music We got a guy in the chat now lol.
joy	tweets	@chrisgwilliams hahaha. I'm driving, so I leave roundabouts when I wake up tomorrow. Arrive proximately 5 hrs from then.  See ya tmw!
surprise	tweets	@NikkiBenz I'm gonna leave you in peace my most beautiful girl in the world. Take care, baby. Love ya. xxXXxx
joy	tweets	@whatsyourcrime ok, so I'm replying!  happy mothers day, indeed!
joy	tweets	@james_a_michael Hey! thanks for another great day! I'm going to sleep now! I'll chat with you tomorrow!  Sweet dreams!
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake--please do SNL every week!! i couldn't quit laughing!! u+snl=best nite ever
surprise	tweets	ahaha im here carlos;;  Wasssup?!
joy	tweets	probably one of the best surprises ever...you really are amazing
joy	tweets	@thatswhack74  haha aww hun i bet you are more creative than me
joy	tweets	@RockDaMullet  thanx mang!  shes due in june 12th and yezzzir the first baby! -drummer boi
joy	tweets	@Tpearson44 me toooooo! Thank u
joy	tweets	Candle wax is very enjoyable.
joy	tweets	I'd like to thank my normally only randomly working internet for actually staying up from the moment I saw the tweet until now.
joy	tweets	@SellPuts agreed  it did take me a little while to find my way on stocktwits, but once I did, I cant imagine working w/o it
joy	tweets	@OkayRay thanx for the bday wishes ray
joy	tweets	Goodnight everyone  Happy Mothers Day to all of the mothers out there
joy	tweets	Late night...finally home.
joy	tweets	fuckkk i need sleepppppppp lol, happy mothers day mummy
joy	tweets	@TravellingSales WELCOME BACK  see you tomorrow! come pick up your gift ;)
joy	tweets	@boredgirl260 did he ask for your Twitter ID? Your sun sign?
joy	tweets	Oh! Northern Downpour was just on the radio! I mean, not from the CD or anything. But the normal radio station! Woohoo.
joy	tweets	@Cattnip lol yeah I guess you have a point
surprise	tweets	A Happy Mother's Day to all moms and soon to be mom's out there.
joy	tweets	@amcknight30 thanks for following
surprise	tweets	&quot;Everyone has one special thing.&quot;  This guy sets the record  for the longest pronunciation of the word &quot;Fresh&quot;    http://bit.ly/3mD9fV
joy	tweets	@Dropsofreign make a prank call for me
surprise	tweets	@shortyyyy Not yet! I'm going to tonight though
joy	tweets	sape ada paypal USD70 untuk dijual? offer me your best rate..
surprise	tweets	@rea_jane yay! buti nagustuhan nyo. isang bar lang enclosed ko sa mail.  to test if matutunaw or hindi. next time uli.
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL THE WONDERFUL MOTHERS IN THE WORLD!!! myself included...
joy	tweets	@mycaricature Keep the suggestions coming...I love the classics!
surprise	tweets	my hundreth update  HAPPY MOTHERS DAY. i love you mum! even with all the fuss and fighting, you're still the one and only.
joy	tweets	@jesuisnancy that's really ultra sweet
joy	tweets	Don't remember installing phpMyAdmin on this dev machine but happy to type host/phpmyadmin &amp; find it there!  (didn't use xampp) #senility
joy	tweets	@naidanai nai nai baby. haha i didn't know that you have twitter but oh well
joy	tweets	Years ago when my neighbor told me she went to school with Sharkboy I didnt care...Too Bad, bcuz now Taylor Lautner is a little hottie!!
surprise	tweets	is live on danny noriega's stickam. he said hey to me  i luv him!!!
joy	tweets	Is going to attempt to cook chunky beef &amp; mushroom pie tonight  mmm, i'm hungry already!
joy	tweets	a band from Hawaii with a Sublime sound, so all you sublime haters can just move along  ? http://blip.fm/~5yy4n
joy	tweets	OMJ JUSt qOt HOME fROM tHAt PARty! it'S 2:OO a.m! i'M MAN tiRED! GOODNiqHt AND HAPPY MOtHER'S DAY 2 ALL!!! tAkE CARE &amp; GOD BlESS!
surprise	tweets	is 99% sober at Brittney's with Becky and Brit  &lt;3
joy	tweets	Jeff &amp; I are looking for long lasting love! Just not with each other we both like Men
joy	tweets	@jasonmitchener Yes sir...I just acquired a Master of Arts in Christian Ministry-a loooooong journey completed today...so thankful!
joy	tweets	Perhaps the answers to all my questions, lie in the deep waves of the ocean. Beach trip anyone!?
joy	tweets	@gKwo  it did, i didnt really watch it haha
joy	tweets	made $30 tonight watching 2 little kids swim and watch a movie!!! haha i love babysitting haha
joy	tweets	@tabithalynnne lmao, yep
joy	tweets	I'm so proud of Dr. House for detoxing.  His Amber hallucination is evil!!
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight awe...Thank you Jon!
joy	tweets	goodnight to all
surprise	tweets	@NikkiBenz There is a cool scene at the end that ties in with another Comic Book movie.
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake  Thank you and Happy Mothers Day to your Mother also SNL tonight
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's day to all the mom's out there in twitter-land!
joy	tweets	Is FINALLY having dinner... At Nishiki Sushi!
joy	tweets	@QueenofKong We should have a twitter reunion it would be awesome to meet you all lol, iwonder howd iget that to pull off
joy	tweets	had one of the greatest days ever! spent the whole day with besties &amp; celebrated installs with the friends i love oh so much  &lt;3
joy	tweets	@Sondra_ i guess we will wait &amp; see..
joy	tweets	@Mumbleguy We need men to give their input too so I'll fill u in on the time very soon
joy	tweets	is really really ready!
joy	tweets	happy mama's day ladies!  have a good day.
joy	tweets	Good night all, 15 miles of trails with 7 peeks to climb in the morning, fun times ahead
joy	tweets	Tell your mom Happy mother's day ok be a good child and tell her !!!
joy	tweets	@TMZaol We should have a twitter reunion it would be awesome to meet you all lol, iwonder howd iget that to pull off
surprise	tweets	@VDog - I think @taxgirl did an amazing presentation about the whole &quot;keeping review items&quot; and tax thing at BlogHer '08  She's awesome!
joy	tweets	and guess what? the second time around... it's still fucking great
joy	tweets	I'm enjoying this Sunday very much. No parents. No revision. Just like any other Sunday
joy	tweets	@GlobeInsurance We should have a twitter reunion it would be awesome to meet you all lol, iwonder howd iget that to pull off
joy	tweets	Hi-5 to ALL my friends and ummm thanks for the follow and enjoy the ride IF I make too many trips (I will) for u and u gotta go i get it
joy	tweets	@cariocastv Stylish soap; lots of sexy people; now we just need a version dubbed in english!  Keep up the good work... Bruno
joy	tweets	says 2 1/2 hours to go, uwian na. . .  [phplurk.com] http://plurk.com/p/sun82
surprise	tweets	@iamjonathancook shes must be a truly amazing woman for having a phenomenal son..
joy	tweets	@JustCierra Yep, they sang your song!
joy	tweets	@angelakeen the next wk I C Drs too but maybe then? I would love it! I did go to Mac Grill.  John was not there! Thought of U!
joy	tweets	@3Magpies Thanks! and to you as well!
joy	tweets	Chatting with matt from mercy mercedes lol.
surprise	tweets	Wow, my phone was blowing up with tweets all day. Now that I'm home, it's a ghost town! Guess I'll do some chores in my apt. &amp; go to bed.
surprise	tweets	And I end up in privilege... Oh well, at least I met a cute engineer
joy	tweets	is surprising momma bear
joy	tweets	Orange/Pineapple/Banana smoothie after a very long, very hard day = HEAVEN!
joy	tweets	@sagetune lucky you! They are my favorite flowers ever and they only come around once a year. Wish twitter had a scratch and sniff option
joy	tweets	@nathanschultze haha. that's awesome. good job
joy	tweets	Logging it out. Thank you Kiana...you're something else ma! masha'Allah.
joy	tweets	@icammodel thank you
joy	tweets	@KOLsweetie hell yeah! Belgian beer is the bomb!!  :p
joy	tweets	So nice to go into the bathroom and not hear the sound of gently running water
joy	tweets	@n_k_mamma TY! Happy Mothers Day to you too! Love ya...Cel
joy	tweets	my blog is now updated
joy	tweets	At t.g.i fridays  With some of my favorite people ever.. We made a reservation for 20 and we have like 50 people here. Hahah
joy	tweets	@epicwinmaster Thats great
joy	tweets	@scottrmcgrew honey is great for your health!
joy	tweets	@serenechai that's cool! i think del's going to korea same time as you! have fun!
surprise	tweets	@pameladetlor netflicks! watching milk... better go wife is jealous of my twitter habit
joy	tweets	Nothing exciting from me tonight....got some new toys to play with though  Happy Mother's Day Ladies
joy	tweets	@diana_truong ahhh~~ is hb done or.. cause we are still hoping for an encore of SNSD  lol!!!
joy	tweets	@appstoremod Mind telling me which book  cuz i was at barnes and nobles today and found 2 books that looked promising
joy	tweets	is getting ready for bed. Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers out there!
joy	tweets	@web20empire @copywriting Welcome to my network buddies
joy	tweets	@MrsPinkyIvory Hey Pinky I ordered some stuff from that site you gave me. I got it yesterday in the mail so pretty  thanks
joy	tweets	Yay, St. Mary's here I come
joy	tweets	I'm so excited for Mothers Day!  This has been a big year for me &amp; Olivia, and she's finally old enough to be excited &amp; understand!
surprise	tweets	Ha Damn im ready.  but Fuck that Bitch, i cant believe she had the balls to call me. Haha Wtf!
joy	tweets	Yay for birthdays  sadly my voice is almost gone :/ but it was a pretty good night!
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all of the moms out there
joy	tweets	catching up on House  season finale monday!
surprise	tweets	Omg. Its 1:47 am and Kim Possible is on Disney Channel right now. I am glued to the screen
surprise	tweets	ms wee's wedding!!!!
joy	tweets	Such a fun night. I needed the break. PS- I love you man is effing hilarious! Good night twitter world. Sweet dreams
joy	tweets	@WCharlie I'll register the first thing I wake up tomorrow.  Looking forward to be back with the forum too!
joy	tweets	is spending time with her mommy later today!
joy	tweets	@Dezz_MCR  yeahh me tOo haha the mine is Mariel  i luv it! and the urs tOo =D  whats ur fav MCR song??
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wk9i - I should really try a different pose some time.
joy	tweets	is about to make a nice cup of tea and pop some benadryl...long day...stay positive twitterbugs...goodnight!
joy	tweets	i found a ride...YES!!! liquor here i come
joy	tweets	.... you are my sunshine, my only sunshine....
joy	tweets	Sportsmens Warehouse finally got field points in, i can now use all my arrows.
surprise	tweets	Bailey's here.
joy	tweets	@jbrigante haha. I'm on drink #2. Cheat day for me
joy	tweets	@SlainwithSatan glad he's leavin' got ALL my expensv shit outta his way...did i mention glad he's leavin'? *bust empty beer bttl on head
joy	tweets	@LemurToes It's pretty good, actually! A few lame episodes, but otherwise good. Give it a try!
joy	tweets	BEP KILLED IT! Oh and leighton meester waved at us!
joy	tweets	@mellieweena Woah... Haha... Thank you!
joy	tweets	@enobytes  drank a 2003 I guess that doesnt count?
joy	tweets	Is finally back from the dinner party, had fun, Alice had no wine. I proposed...we're getting married next week on May 15th 2009
joy	tweets	all mom's in the world congratulations
joy	tweets	@N0S4A2 wowie wooie someone updated their twitter without me having to remind you. I'm not even mad,I'm impressed.  how was the lasagna ?
joy	tweets	@ChEmIcALbUlLeTs thats sweet
joy	tweets	@bloodhoundgang aww that's awesome! he's a good guy
joy	tweets	@CesYeuxBleu is making everything fabulous tonight
joy	tweets	rap battling at second sat, now at the moviesss  haha &quot;i swim in a lake of sex&quot;- Matthew M. ( Ghosts of Girlfriends Past)
joy	tweets	working on the climb season 2 episode 5!!
surprise	tweets	Happy mothers day  just tried on what I'm gonna wear for breakfast and I curled my hair it took forever http://yfrog.com/0gmunj
joy	tweets	happy mothers day to all   im off to spend the day with my family
joy	tweets	@nnayaj_11 thanks. enjoy the movie! i hope all is well with you te.
joy	tweets	@Stacina I have no doubt, darlin'!  Just wish you could find a boy worthy is all!  You're good people!
surprise	tweets	@mrgarbutt TWEET 42
joy	tweets	@juliepilat great show
joy	tweets	everything is good except that neck shot and Steve's back of the head shot!
surprise	tweets	@ngffrussell Awesome.  I'm down in Ocean Beach (if you know where that is.) By the way. &quot;YourBiggestFan&quot; I'm a re-al big fan of you-rs.
surprise	tweets	@dreamer0407 ohh and Coffee Break is my fave too! they rock!! LOL
joy	tweets	@itsQ LMAO... Smh!  that one threw me off.
joy	tweets	@AspaPhoto I'm glad then
joy	tweets	taking mum to lunch for mothers day
joy	tweets	and thanks, @rawrvee , fr. yr congratulatory gweetin'
joy	tweets	@Therealseeon Birthday Sex is a great song, man.  Something different about it!  That's what ppl want!
joy	tweets	@mattmercy yay! we will have to get together soon and do something
joy	tweets	@officialTila who you snugglin with Tila???
joy	tweets	@madlyv this is funny, we just discussed Bela Lugosi  over dinner, his apearance in Plan B from outer space &quot;best&quot; movie ever
joy	tweets	@brianiwama amen to that brotha!
surprise	tweets	My computer is back in business
surprise	tweets	@fiascowines let me guess. You devoured your duck with Fiasco Pinot!
joy	tweets	@FrankIero Thats amazing quote indeed.Btw Have a nice weekend  !
joy	tweets	Wishes @kirstiealley a Happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	Watching aliens with my boobie at craig rise house 11 early bedtime for the grown ups
joy	tweets	@chriscornell Thank you!  The best to you and yours tomorrow... I hope you all have a lovely day together!!
joy	tweets	@MoocherGirl i think it was more the tigers crumbling. so not surprising at all, really ... lol ...
joy	tweets	Lovely night, guys. Full moon  thinking about going out onto my roof lol
surprise	tweets	hello! @maggieyan3 ! following on recommendatiion of @casparterhorst !
surprise	tweets	@GeorgiaPrincez He'd probably spontaneously combust.
surprise	tweets	coming home tomorrow with a car full of treasures
joy	tweets	@Ms_Mary_Typhoid Are you coming to the wedding?  I want all of his friends to be there?    @TheDeadpool Right, sugar?
joy	tweets	I just got a call from my chimp buddies, want to join the party. Loads to prepare now. Wow this is great. Cup of tea first i think. Erm
joy	tweets	@MoCo love that lamp!  We're in Sydney, Australia
joy	tweets	@LD2k @kampashai sitting next to magicmoment
joy	tweets	@amygrant Chocolate with peanut butter. One of my favorite combonations
joy	tweets	@vrowhani nope - just playing with one  i think i'm going to wait for the next iphone
surprise	tweets	Chilling with Colton who just redesigned the Cocktail Hacker card backs for me.
joy	tweets	@KristinaxB your right. im so jealous i wish i had gangsterrrr pants like your grandma
joy	tweets	@w3edge congrats hey
joy	tweets	Love the family feud episode with the kardashians tonight
joy	tweets	Time to sign off for the night! Everyone have a great one! To all the mother's out there &quot;Happy Mother's Day&quot;
joy	tweets	Just got $200 of my Macbook
surprise	tweets	@felicityrose why would they take a photo with stuffed animals?! that's pretty funny
joy	tweets	Had a long day at work. Stood home. Now sleeping to have another long day at work tomorrow &amp; happy mothers day to all mothers
joy	tweets	@jhughes4 Awesome fortune cookie!  I think you really WILL go to exotic places.  Hope all is well!!!
joy	tweets	@BabyvibeNancy Hi Nancy your fine (till it the baby moves!)  Just get out of the house &amp; do fun stuff early! The hardest jump was 1 to 2
joy	tweets	Thank you for the advice   I'll work on that when Im not at work.
joy	tweets	saw kim kardashian on robertson today, ate a hella good sandwich at bay cities in santa monica, and just downloaded a lot of new songs
joy	tweets	@vestacaro Did they already get the tax money from Helio for his winning of the pole position! Ha ha!!
joy	tweets	@kmore Yeahhh... thx. I figured it out
surprise	tweets	success! after much grumbling abt how we always waste money on useless gifts, mum sees the ipod nano and loves it
surprise	tweets	justin timberlake + snl = awesome ... dude should just become a regular
joy	tweets	My Sissy and I went to a Bridal Shower tonight; crazy women!!
joy	tweets	I forgot to mention that I am downloading the Fightstar version of Imogen Heap's &quot;Hiide and Seek&quot;  I have about 15 versions of that song!
joy	tweets	@TayloRAWR if you're watching this...I love you.&quot; I almost died. But now...SHE MEANS NOTHING!
joy	tweets	@SirReigns Now that's what i like to hear!   You won't unfollow us little people on Twitter when you make it big will u?
joy	tweets	Well, at least it's not as bad as I thought. Found a new website to watch movies on and I gotta say.......it's not bad, not bad at all
joy	tweets	Did you know call of duty has a scenario game called &quot;Nazi zombies?&quot; it's awesome and scary at the same time
joy	tweets	@SherylLoch You too!   Happy Mom's get to rule and kids have to take it day
joy	tweets	@jenthegingerkid oh. em. gee. i think that might be it!!! i wonder if i can get it @ a macy's - do you know a/b shipping?  @c2s :X sorry
surprise	tweets	the poetry event was a success. I don't think I ever really thought that my poetry could connect with others. heartache is universal
joy	tweets	@mariapaulaa i KNOW! AHH!  so fun!
joy	tweets	(@CoxRocks) Ha, the lead singer gave me a high five and i got one of their guitar pics!
joy	tweets	just got home from church. The Service was good
joy	tweets	@Willy9e  shouldn't I be going to sleep? Just kidding :p
joy	tweets	@whoaaitskristi OMG I'M SOO EXCITED! i've been waiting for it ever since i saw the 5th one at midnight the night before!
surprise	tweets	@linuxluver I read for pure escapism. Don't make me think, take me away  non-fiction tends not to achieve that, for some strange reason
joy	tweets	@xodedexo18 Of course you can come join our sleep-over!! Can you bring me a big dill pickle?!
joy	tweets	@tabbycat224 gooood we miss you!!  hope you had fun w/the in-laws haha
surprise	tweets	@mscofino wow that is a great list... Now i need to shop
joy	tweets	I think Destiny has officially gone crazy... hahahaha
joy	tweets	@leahita Your sweetie is very lucky too!  #liberty
joy	tweets	@missflipflop Night girl! Seriously want to hear stories when you can
joy	tweets	@80smusicthebest I'm doing okay
joy	tweets	excited to see my cousins this week.
joy	tweets	@AngelIbarra You guys rocked tonight. And yes, us Tacoma kids RULE.
joy	tweets	@cherrybaby2001 Glad you like it!
joy	tweets	Gotta buy some onesies for my besties lol ah Yea!  at the club having a grand ol time
joy	tweets	@MsNewAppearance Hey, thanx for following me, I'll follow you
joy	tweets	Just signed up on Twitter! yay!
surprise	tweets	seriously underrated.. 'porridge', the best breakfast in the world... ever. doesn't need to be gloopy, as long as it is made just right
joy	tweets	@alitherunner haha, sorry, it's past my bedtime
joy	tweets	Selling artwork+ risk game with the boys+ startrek= just what i needed. What a good day
joy	tweets	george lopez, bed, mommys day tomorrow ;)  i wish house was on Hugh Laurie, is sexay. sometimes i like way older guys.
joy	tweets	but i didnt  krystal spent the night last night..i dnt think i posted that. but ya, we laughed a lot. SQUIRREL! &amp; HOUSE! new inside jokes.
joy	tweets	says morning plurk  just woke up. haha http://plurk.com/p/supwp
joy	tweets	@AshlieRayann Ashlie, thank you.  You made me feel a little better.
joy	tweets	Getting Emilie in half an hour, should get up.... Have a nice day all! Talk later I hope
joy	tweets	just received a personal email from Perez Hilton
joy	tweets	Gonna give a guest lecture tomorrow @ PES Mandya on OpenGL
joy	tweets	Its offically mothers day!! happy moms day!!!
joy	tweets	@bigben91190 its fun though
joy	tweets	@BackpackingDad Whooo Baby! Good luck
joy	tweets	is singing in the rain. Cover your ears, people
joy	tweets	SNL after party
joy	tweets	Not quite sure what ace of cakes is or are. Gosh I'm tired. Loved bride wars. Fun night.
joy	tweets	Excited for enfest yaaaay
joy	tweets	@jmascia yay i found u!! i had a great time tonight!
joy	tweets	@heidiheartshugs that's cool. Well if you need any more help regarding that, Google is your friend. Plenty of info on that!
surprise	tweets	@bloggingroach: re &quot;pot meet kettle&quot; not so sure of that equation.
joy	tweets	- God i'm up early. Hayley still asleep but today is party day so i'm getting stuff ready.  x
joy	tweets	my legs are soft  watching a move with my mommm short day @ workk
joy	tweets	@joshcough Also it has a dense treatment of CPS and Continuation based Interpreter design, which is not there in SICP. Good to have both
joy	tweets	says my new layout is so cute x) see the cuties ? hahahah  http://plurk.com/p/suqp6
joy	tweets	@JaiAsh anytime  that's what Im here for *giggles*
joy	tweets	Finally cleaned my bedroom. I can see the carpet again   Hurray!
joy	tweets	ima go to sleep now. good night. dnt let the bed bugs bite. haha.
joy	tweets	Studying like crazy in hopes of acing all of my exams!!!!!
joy	tweets	@faeriegal713 Yep, finished, chocked full of spelling and grammatical errors, but I'm cleaning it up tomorrow and popping it up  hehe
joy	tweets	@whitsundays lol! l love your tweets! Keep them coming
joy	tweets	@divinediva1 Norwood house party haaaaaa... Yaaaaaaay (smiles)
joy	tweets	watching men n blk 2, wishin all the mums happy mother's day
surprise	tweets	i can't believe my little brother is married...
joy	tweets	I win? You now must call
surprise	tweets	@DaveStyles Haahaha omg.. dude I read that and almost choked.. haha thanks
joy	tweets	Well friends we just got in and it has been a long day, hope all is going good &amp; every one is happy. All our love Night nite
joy	tweets	Going to Newtown soon. (Y)
joy	tweets	just finished dinner - it was yummy
joy	tweets	oh how i love texting my drunk friends  hahahaha
joy	tweets	Limo Rides into the City for Dinner, Cruises on the Harbour, Makeovers &amp; Foot/Back Massages *yay* .. hope the fellas can get some of that
joy	tweets	Chillin.. Uploadinng The Videos I Took On [MySpace].  The Showw Was Awesomme!
joy	tweets	My industrial is repierced, and I made a cute little friend
joy	tweets	hahaha yay emily i m cool  @emilystack
surprise	tweets	VAST concert tomarrow night!!!!
joy	tweets	@lmpotter You're very welcome
joy	tweets	sweet spice girls sing along w good friends
surprise	tweets	@brabakr @Elikapeka @BeachMomOf2 Oh Duh....I see that now .....thank you....
joy	tweets	went on a ride to tortilla flats this morning with @wookiesgirl, a little warm, but a nice ride none the less
joy	tweets	@SarrahRae HAHAH you know you loved the hannah montana movie  it was aweesome
joy	tweets	@kristenstewart9 WOW, I can't believe u reached the Facebook limit for # of friends! Crazy!!
joy	tweets	Twitter is useful in that it reminds people what they forgot to ask me about on a given day. It is also excellent for inspiration
joy	tweets	@gregxgore Make her something. Buying something is too impersonal. She's your mom!
joy	tweets	iced coffee and vanilla ice cream UBER SICK MIX
joy	tweets	Done at Disneyland, kid's knocked out, stopped by the hotel bar and grabbed a grey goose &amp; tonic on the way up...peace
joy	tweets	i'm tired but i'm in a good moood
joy	tweets	Goin to bed... Finally. So sleepy! *Happy mothers day!*
joy	tweets	@darkgracie nice song, where did it come from ?
joy	tweets	@helloheartbreak Thanks bb.
joy	tweets	wow I just had a two hour conversation with someone on omegle. it was amazing
surprise	tweets	@rogergzz es imposible no amar starbucks
joy	tweets	@shaktijs http://twitpic.com/4wkym - Looks Yummy...I can haz smal pies pleess??
joy	tweets	Going home. Hope one of you out there saw the play.
joy	tweets	@whoaaitskristi OMG THAT'S AWESOME. this is the first time ever i'm not seeing it the day it comes out. Demi is taking over my day. haha
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day! ..ok..seriously..good night
joy	tweets	cannot sleep i'm SUPER DUPER DUPER excited pour la PARIS.  the love city.
joy	tweets	@citycynic Sounds good to me! No more cleaning cynics orders. Haha. Good night. Talk tomorrow.
joy	tweets	@nkotbworshiper me too... it goes to my phone so all night long sometimes my phone is blowing up... so nice to wake up to!
joy	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Aww thanks jon that's very thoughtful...u know how to make the ladies feel special
surprise	tweets	@NathanFillion Where DO you get all those wonderful toys?
joy	tweets	break from packing. watching the office  Pam: &quot;I had just woken up. I didn't look cute. That's how I knew he meant it.&quot;
joy	tweets	@nettagyrl Thanks, it's just too good for TV, simple as that.  #dollhouse
joy	tweets	@saraeatscake made me want taco bell, damn you sara! oh well now i'm going to go change into my jammies now.
joy	tweets	@NicciSnail I'll most definitely write about it! I look forward to your article on RE5 (if you do write about it) It should be fun.
joy	tweets	is about to go buy his mother a mother's day gift
surprise	tweets	@xXJess017Xx thats great babe!! congrats!!
joy	tweets	akissforjersey is amazing&lt;3 sooo soothing.
joy	tweets	off to bed I go..have a great Mom's Day all you moms!
joy	tweets	Pulled out the breakfast sausage for Mothers Day. Hopefully the baby sleeps in
joy	tweets	@amberchase ~ We voted! You have 760 now.
joy	tweets	Shopping day.. headin to central chidlom and siam
joy	tweets	freedom
joy	tweets	@mikexjeezxx I think I've heard of that song. I'll listen to it tomorrow.
joy	tweets	@Aubergine006 I still have plenty of food left here! Thanks for coming over, I can't wait to see how the pictures came out
joy	tweets	@FanInfo Absolutely! Just have a good backup for Romo for December.
joy	tweets	Watched Adaptation, Interiors, and The Women (1939). All in all, good movie night. Breakfast with dad and kelley in the morning
joy	tweets	Your the supporter  its totally up to you
joy	tweets	Just got done turning in my pre-final project for my computer animation class. Final is due on Tues. Only 2 more classes or 6 more weeks.
joy	tweets	@i420TRUE THANKUS
surprise	tweets	@MattCundill Haha! At the Somerset theatre in Ottawa. I remember that well. The more things change the more they stay the same
joy	tweets	Great find @NicciSnail  http://amanita-design.net/samorost-1/
joy	tweets	No matter what I ALWAYS find out the truth.
joy	tweets	@HungryGirl That's too bad, the movie's really pretty good.  We weren't scared away even by the people in costume.
joy	tweets	TODAY WAS SOO FUN!!  happy bday chrissy &lt;3
joy	tweets	@SJSharksfan haha i agree ! i am her test dummy. i just go in and say &quot;do whatever you want&quot; and i always love it.  she is magic!
joy	tweets	IT'S MOTHER'S DAY
joy	tweets	What better way to spoil mum than to let her kick back and relax over a nice meal and a bottle of her favorite wine? Our wine was a red
surprise	tweets	Mothers day in 45 minutes west coast time.  Happy Mothers Day to all the mothers out there
joy	tweets	just got home. went to totoro cafe (finally) for the first time ever. i liked it! what a colorful place. such a happy atmosphere
joy	tweets	@linnraz home for 4 months  or less. depending on how fast i get bored, hahs.
joy	tweets	legs are still numb from journey to atlantis+coldness... buttt it was an awesome day
joy	tweets	@JaimeMcKnight YAY!!!!   I have Mark issues, too...you'll find I have A LOT of issues.   lmao
joy	tweets	Two fantastic shows in a row
joy	tweets	@notlikemedicine Nice! That sounds great! Let me know when and where.
surprise	tweets	@kyeungbum going to sleep? why so early? Good night!
joy	tweets	@wstmjonathan cool, so if you could help make that happen, &amp; make sure it happens at least once in houston, that'd be great. k? thanks.
joy	tweets	I'm one tough momma. Put together a swing set for Tammy allll by myself today!  My hubby would be so proud of me. :]
joy	tweets	At myhouse with the girls tonight
joy	tweets	@Tidus Yes, you make me want to be a better person, think I mentioned it before, will continue to do so. I'm still EVIL tho!
joy	tweets	listening to MCR, watching DVD's, chocolate hehe  awesome
joy	tweets	posted a few pics of my college on my myspace www.myspace.com/katieheidie
surprise	tweets	OMG.. THIS ONE??? YESSSSS love this Danny song
joy	tweets	@akarra if you weren't &quot;picky&quot; (=precise) i might not find you as interesting to talk to
joy	tweets	@xjam13x LOL. Wow. That's good.  Haha I still can't believe it's mother's day.
joy	tweets	@contrarygirl Hoooray!  I'm hooked already
joy	tweets	Well goodnight all my twitter bugs sleep well
joy	tweets	@stompthewalrus oh ok  good ... now i will jump for joy! M, you just made my day
surprise	tweets	@questlove  ok just between U and me  and all of  our  followers on twitter what do U really think of @jimmyfallon ? lol
joy	tweets	What I Meant to Say: At Yardhouse, Waikiki. @lilredbow 's bday @djjmytaco @mixmasterb @mcfloppyears (she Should DJ!) &amp; some dozen others
joy	tweets	juss came backk from Berkeleyy ; omg its madd fun out there  havent been out there in a minute . whassqoodd ?
surprise	tweets	@LironD keep dreamin'!!!! Though.... if she does.... hook me up  LOL
joy	tweets	can't wait to see 'Transformers 2'.. C'me on, Shia! Yippiee!
joy	tweets	@CarnivoSpouse We Agree!! You guy rock
joy	tweets	Sleeeep. Good day, nice night, comfy bed.
joy	tweets	@ankita_gaba haha I think we should let the topic drop now. a quick poll would settle the matter if you don't believe me
joy	tweets	Heading to XS with Nadia!! Yeee!
joy	tweets	started her new job today! aaand so stoked for may long..  and billy is awesome.
surprise	tweets	still eatin lunch.....n readin comments about last nite....da best comment i receive was &quot;You really brought Anne to life!&quot;
joy	tweets	@jameswhitaker Umm most def  We should have a fun Houston day together and then hopefully it'll turn into a Houston night... hehe
joy	tweets	Just joined Twitter hehe
surprise	tweets	Going downstairs for more coffee and socialising  Wow... Only 4:16?.. Gives me time for French later
surprise	tweets	@rjramos yeh take ur time, no pressure   how did u learn to twirl around the knifes and stuff?
joy	tweets	@PlayForKeeps I made my parents add u guys on the family myspace...they were impressed by the song.
surprise	tweets	@JoesGaGirl Here I'm staying up with you and you're not talking to me.   hehe
joy	tweets	Just got Back from the Gym Wanna chat with some new people  Lets talk! haha
joy	tweets	@billbergstrom Looks like a great time!  Happy Birthday to the bd girl
joy	tweets	Yay my friend Glen is here. Now i'm like this
joy	tweets	playing guitar hero, waiting for Abby to text me after prom
surprise	tweets	@mrskutcher I agree... And child labour laws are so old and out dated.
joy	tweets	6moredays.6moredays. yay.yay. taken is nearly finished  better be good
joy	tweets	had a nice mother's day with mum. she liked her presents. wondering if i'll ever see some one again. talking to sisa.
joy	tweets	@aileen2u2 and yep, you've converted me to Blip.  Been great to hear a lot of others suggestions - some pretty great stuff!
joy	tweets	The stress of recital is gone!!  It went so well  And Star Trek is my new favorite movie!!! I wish I was in space =/
joy	tweets	back home in palmdale. in bed with my mommy
joy	tweets	totally just got hit on by one of her bar guests! Ha ha...Yay me!
joy	tweets	Huge test at the parents' house. The food is so good, but stuck to one helping, no seconds. Feels good.
joy	tweets	has gone through about 6 tea bags , call me obbsessed , i say thirsty
joy	tweets	@SevFletcher exercise is what u make of it. Walk, run, bike, blade, skate, surf, JUST DO IT  feels gooooooood
joy	tweets	@kidthings yeah it does...i had fun today...i regret not taking that cup now...it was awesome...i must find one just like it now
joy	tweets	Funtime was not a lot of fun!! But finally done with it
joy	tweets	Ocean sounds cd
joy	tweets	#PhpEd 5.6 running successfuly via #wine , now to get EMS running
joy	tweets	@ChicagoGirl Gotcha.  My place is Atlantic side.  Better for surfing   Plus I like to be close to the crazy foreign restaurants. Mmm, FL.
joy	tweets	@xxcharrrs aw anytime, boo. I realized that all I need to have some fun are you guys.  We should change our pics to the poofy hair ones!
joy	tweets	HAHA! Follow john mayer..he's a pretty funny guy  I want to move to L.A .... it's so much more fun!
surprise	tweets	forgot she had a Twitter account.    Happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	I am now Vice President of Social and Cultural Affairs at Southwestern College
surprise	tweets	Calling all mothers, calling all mothers...get your butts to bed - the kids'll be here tomorrow
surprise	tweets	Constructivist learning theory - anybody? Oh wait..... there's always wikipedia right?!
joy	tweets	yay new computer to fiddle about with
joy	tweets	@illegalvenez Mmm, comfort junk food. That sounds good. I always preferred Wingstop
surprise	tweets	@melbritt_xo hey hey, ur following me  ur gna relise that i tweet ALOT!! haha more than a normal person wud but im not normal
joy	tweets	@souljaboytellem gimme some ! i wanna try it   (Soulja Boy Tell 'Em LIVE live &gt; http://ustre.am/2UhS)
joy	tweets	@Steven_Morales I like you. I mean as a random person, because I obviously don't know you. but. we think alike
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
joy	tweets	Yesssssssssss! A rocket to the moon is  going on warped!
joy	tweets	@RM16JB haha, yeahh. im still following u tho,
joy	tweets	@touringtenting I don't mind him not paying rent. I'm just over the moon at the idea of him moving out at least 12 years early
surprise	tweets	@LucasPace Wow! I am impressed Pastor Lucas! Great work!!!
surprise	tweets	What's up yall! I made it an early night!  I think ima bout to take a shower and chill witcha! Did I miss anything?
joy	tweets	@RedRosePetals  God bless that oh-so-sexy rahul picture
surprise	tweets	@MarcScott LOL. me too..werd...:p...hubby's fave driver is Martin so I am happy for him and me!!!
joy	tweets	@mileycyrus HI!  I'm Eunice Kyna! I'm a HUGE fan of yours! Can't wait for your next album! ;)
joy	tweets	@brendanvalencia where and when is your next show? or upcoming ones? i really want to see you guys
surprise	tweets	@JonathanRKnight you're so gorgeous!!
joy	tweets	@babygirlparis all ur pic it's so nice  look so cute..oh!!
joy	tweets	@vampire_peter let's smoke and watched dazed and confused. that's a perfect pizza movie too
joy	tweets	mum's day - ended up being happy  not that it's my day or anything....
joy	tweets	ready for a day full of His presence  i'm expecting the best!
joy	tweets	@ThaBoyOPhicial  Good eatin.   Hey, follow my son @P33ZY.  He's on now
joy	tweets	@steve_berra happy birthday!
joy	tweets	@vansunder is making me hot chocolate with almond milk.  Mother Day festivities is starting early!
joy	tweets	@Kevin_Ross if you look at the js code in facebook you will notice a few js functions...nahh just kidding, a buddy told me
joy	tweets	@souljaboytellem will u say shoutout to NIKKI!!! please   (Soulja Boy Tell 'Em LIVE live &gt; http://ustre.am/2UhS)
joy	tweets	? ALREADY FINISHED CHATTING . HAHA ..  ?
joy	tweets	@moonfrye i would think ANYTHING that the kids had a hand in helping with would be EXTRA special!
joy	tweets	@SpoiledMommy thanks  it was one of those goofy in the bathroom self taken dorky shot, ha ha. Hope you have a wonderful mommies day!
joy	tweets	I'm the proud aunt of baby Afrikaah Itzel 7.9 lbs 20.2 in
joy	tweets	Officially Mother Day here HAPPY Mother Day to all the MOMS
joy	tweets	@Corrina2008 your bitches miss you!!!!
joy	tweets	happy mother's day
joy	tweets	After 42 hours of not sleeping it is time for bed. Alaska-so far so good
joy	tweets	awesomeness....she comes my way...lol..dun dun dun!
joy	tweets	just missing you&amp;hoping to talk to you soon..I'm so happy you're mine again, though  You have no idea..&lt;3
joy	tweets	cant contain myself, tooooooo excited
joy	tweets	@michaelBchevre and all chevre: please follow me at @elishevabalas for chevre only   I'm using @eliseven for public tweeting!  Thanks!
joy	tweets	I am excited to be home  finally a week and a weekend with people i know
joy	tweets	so bryan was at the sweet 15 and i didnt think we were gonna talk but towards the end of the night we talked
joy	tweets	@nice_argie Yes I am
joy	tweets	@officialTila Thanks for the interview mama!  Enjoy your night
joy	tweets	Traveling faster than light might actually be possible. (space.com http://bit.ly/7Ex4J ) yeah, enterprise we'r comin'
surprise	tweets	Eminem's new song &quot;Beautiful&quot; is amazing!. Listen to the MAGIC right NOW!!  http://www.myspace.com/steve005
joy	tweets	@bicegirl555 thanks!!
joy	tweets	@rjramos very cool
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! It's gonna be an awesome and blessed day! Getting ready for bed... for a beautiful and sunny Sunday...
joy	tweets	watching my favorite tv shows on HULU.com for free
joy	tweets	@DarryleP LOL! I do splurge on chocolate now and then.  And I plan on splurging a little tomorrow!
joy	tweets	@awesomerthanyou Memphis and RCW both have all new songs.  should be good.
joy	tweets	Went to mikey's cousin's wedding. His mom caught the bouquet.
joy	tweets	went OUT 4 a meet up &amp; MAY B hangin &amp; or hittin a club or bar   IF the car holds up LOL :-P
surprise	tweets	@alyxandracouch what was itt!?
joy	tweets	@MikeTattoos LOL...oh, man, can I un-twit something? haha! I mean my lean mean fighting machine. I sooo can't believe you called me out!
surprise	tweets	@Zoexander Very very very very cool.  http://www.inbflat.net/ More details? How it was made? Please tell
joy	tweets	@loa_ricardo road movies indies rule  haha
surprise	tweets	@bradiewebbstack hahaha my uncle does that coz my aunty is a whore who left her kids
surprise	tweets	@WTFOSO   I'm not leaving yet!
joy	tweets	finally got a twitter  follow me tweets &lt;3
joy	tweets	@JJRogue I have an interview on tuesday so things are turning around I think!! yay! so dont worry!  And Japsicans are a rare breed. ;)
joy	tweets	@steve_berra happy bday stevie bee...and if u want followers u have to get a little more tweety  may babies r the best! i'm the 12th
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day Mum
joy	tweets	Watching the best movie ever: The NeverEnding Story!  I wish my babbby was with me, though.
joy	tweets	I want to wish HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY to my two favorite moms in the world: My own mom of course  and my sister!!! HAPPY MOM'S DAY TO YOU TWO!
joy	tweets	@aileen2u2 It's pretty perfect eh! Yes We Cannabis!  I saw some of those signs at the Global Marijuana March too.
joy	tweets	@cherrytreerec hows the peas doin? if you meet them, tell them i said hello
joy	tweets	@Commander_Cool yep here's hoping
joy	tweets	@unitechy good luck.. Finally your long time will of panvel tweetup finally coming true..
joy	tweets	@ThriftyMamaB for lack of having to go do my own hunt (lol) can you refresh my memory on which one is clue #2?
joy	tweets	@souljaboytellem SHOUT OUT TO NIKKI....PLEASSSEEE   (Soulja Boy Tell 'Em LIVE live &gt; http://ustre.am/2UhS)
joy	tweets	Going to Scandic to have more food  (and learn about leadership of course)
joy	tweets	Time to nap w/my giant, early birthday present, Pooh Bear stuffed animal
joy	tweets	@serenajwilliams Hi Serena just want to say good luck in Madrid and Paris this month
joy	tweets	Laughing for no reason...maybe its because its 2:27 and I'm tired, haha. Maybe i should go to bed  Night!
joy	tweets	Goodnight, good morning and HAPPY MOTHERS DAY! Visit my profile to see my silly offspring.Its funny, the love of my life picks his nose!
surprise	tweets	SNL w/ Justin Timberlake
joy	tweets	Exhausted to the tee.. So i'm knocking out! Nighty night tweety birds
joy	tweets	@scorpfromhell Well said
joy	tweets	@djR3Z okay just checking!
joy	tweets	@DjSpeedDaGreat good shit homie, hahahahaha thats what im talkin about  ;)
joy	tweets	@natalietran I did really like that http://tinyurl.com/c63mhr reminds  a little of my favor hfw
joy	tweets	@bceband i cant wait to see you guys @ hq on sunday!!
joy	tweets	// sounders game tomorrow! and mother's day
joy	tweets	@hitechhall I love the site what a hoot, really enjoy the hair cuts in Thailand, always try to time ir just right, thanks for the tip
joy	tweets	my phone keeps beeping at me... thanks alan and speeeeeen!
joy	tweets	@veropperez great!!  i've gpt tp put the lyrics in, finsih the background, then go over some writing, and then done!!
joy	tweets	@CaseLynn Not us as far as I know  hee hee. We're thinking a few more years first .
joy	tweets	great reason!! @Karuna: &quot;I'll be there  @rkmonkey: &quot;trying to find an excuse to go to LA for 5/22 show @mello... ? http://blip.fm/~5z0dc
joy	tweets	@michaelmagical Been crazy busy here! *grins* It's Mother's Day weekend. Lots of my abies sending me well wishes
surprise	tweets	@carolina90 hahahaha omg you win the internetz today!  &quot;Why are you trying to turn me into Zac Efron?&quot; hahaha
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake Yay!  SNL is on!
joy	tweets	@JaybzS Hi! We get to try out new restos..so yea, it fuunn  Let's have dinner when you get back!
joy	tweets	watching miss cytheria
joy	tweets	GOT MY RITE EAR PEIRCED! brother got his first peircing, his left ear. I also got 2 new septum bars, one is a  black c bar with balls!
joy	tweets	whohoo!  Erin just got accepted to Ottawa U nursing school at the Algonquin Pembroke campus.  I just may get my girl back
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MOTHERS IN THE WORLD ESPECIALLY THE TWEETER MOMS
joy	tweets	Has finally learned how to think before he speaks. And it works wonders
surprise	tweets	@jtimberlake Why thank you... Us Mami's are bringin' sexy back...
surprise	tweets	@skinnylatte many! mine included. ahem. shld have known better back then, wldn't have missed so many opportunities haha
joy	tweets	Alright gang. Gotta go park with family for an hour. Back then  Mwahs to yu if you head to bed before then
joy	tweets	Goodnight Beautiful world  sweet dreams. olive juice!
joy	tweets	@jwdilla I'm glad you've been having fun babe
joy	tweets	Mother's Day family dinner on a rainy Sunday night
joy	tweets	Heavenly Donuts at 11:30 at night...sounds like a heavenly match to me.  SIYAL8R
joy	tweets	Ah wokking was great. You could eat as much ice cream as you what. I never eat so much ice cream in my life...
joy	tweets	@ggw_bach Thank you for YOUR positive energy + contributions here!
joy	tweets	@sirlance16  Hope ur havin fun in da club
joy	tweets	I have seen Star Trek, so now you guys can't spoil it  If you haven't seen it, Go. Go now.
joy	tweets	@beverly Thanks love  They are much better today.
joy	tweets	is eating lunch at Sushi Tei, Sency yum! met Ghina earlier
joy	tweets	i beat aye to the music hall.  babyy, im like the cinnamon that beat the apple to the apple jacks.
joy	tweets	Im free at last, tomorrow I get to remember what Sundays look like
joy	tweets	4 hours of shopping over... good effort. Best part = chocolate shop.... YUJM!!!... yum even
joy	tweets	first day of work: sucessful  i didnt do anything stupid or hurt/embarrass myself too much...
joy	tweets	Headed out at 6 today, shopped for Mother's Day gifts. I love B&amp;BWs new scents ? AND finished my book I bought yesterday.
joy	tweets	Covering my portfolio to send to my *dream job* in ny! Send good vibes!
joy	tweets	back in Durango. Chaperoning a party. interesting. catching up on my internet surfing and drinking a woodchuck. ha.
joy	tweets	@inkrediblenyc hey Lonnie! I'll be there next weekend  I can't wait.
surprise	tweets	@darealTinaT Hey Love!!!
surprise	tweets	@sakka: What, you're not really an alcoholic? I AM V. DISAPPOINTED! D: Seriously, though, I got that you were kidding.
surprise	tweets	@esuh so what if i cried
joy	tweets	@ikonora Have a great night!
joy	tweets	although @pickupshanan (Volterra) is killing it right now here in la
joy	tweets	@error505 - well i greatly appreciate your comment.  That means a lot to me.  I'm working on both of them...work in progress, you know.
joy	tweets	just had an orgasmic sandwich
surprise	tweets	@deleonthegreat lolz at your modesty...***kix rox***...now all the gals will be lined up at your door
surprise	tweets	@bella88love I was gonna go for aiden but I had a girl so I went with scarlet
joy	tweets	home now!
joy	tweets	@antdeshawn awww thank u. Feels good to be here
joy	tweets	@BB517 YES he just said for 2 more hours
joy	tweets	Good Morning Everyone
joy	tweets	okay, I'm back to painting! will check in with you guys again soon!
surprise	tweets	touchin the starss
joy	tweets	Night all!! i'm trying to get to bed early for once...well as early as 1:40 can be for a normal person...
joy	tweets	Probably the best birthday I've ever had. I got to spend it with all my favorite people.
joy	tweets	@Suzyqbee10 thank you very much!!!
joy	tweets	happy superwomans day !
joy	tweets	SNL hosted by Justin Timberlake startssssssssssss NOW!!  WOOHOO!!
joy	tweets	@journik LOL!  That is just the way I was brought up.
joy	tweets	@verwon was that sass I detect?  As long as it isn't back sass! Haha
joy	tweets	damn...Ive gotten so much packed up already lmao, well little shit anyway. Either way, I have a good start
joy	tweets	@dmcox fantastic day in the AZ sun
joy	tweets	my first 'star trek' anything was really entertaining.. now if I can just see Harold fly the enterprise to 'white castle'
joy	tweets	@WaDuRosario yay! you should do it. just think about the animals and it's not as hard
joy	tweets	Happy to have a Sunday off from work
joy	tweets	I still can't believe the Matt McCoy interview got 255 views!! Twitter truly is....AWESOME!
joy	tweets	Restoring new iTouch 2.  Excited to use it. Yeeeeeeeee. Goodbye iTouch 1.
joy	tweets	is gonna shower, and take a nap...very tired...
joy	tweets	family bbq today &amp; my fave cousin comes too
joy	tweets	just finished baking some cinnamon rolls   soooo yummy!
joy	tweets	Show gratitude when someone does something nice for you... A small &quot;Thanks&quot; goes a long way  ~ @Mike_Wesely   #twitip
joy	tweets	Going to watch Monster-In-Law at 3PM today
joy	tweets	@TDBeadles as to sleeping with whom ? You have your rocking sheets  I hope the smoothness is endulging can't wait for my blankets)
joy	tweets	super duber high! this klondike bar is thee business.
joy	tweets	@krystynchong Hello Krystyn  have a great Mother's Day celebrations
joy	tweets	KERI HILSON- SLOW DANCE ROCKIN' THE SHIT OUT OF MY PLAYLIST RIGHT NOW! GET UP ON THIS SONG, PURE PANTY DROPPER
joy	tweets	@kayemeff its almost your birthday!!
joy	tweets	@SamBennington  Welcome to Twitter  It's really cool that you are here! Greetings from Vienna,Austria
joy	tweets	traveling alone makes i meet new people,new circle ..strangers become friends
joy	tweets	Morning everyone! Hope you have a great Sunday!!
joy	tweets	Fatigue settling in, but gotta power through! Awesome seats again tonight. I'm pretty lucky. Life ain't too bad...
surprise	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the Mommys.
joy	tweets	@aeche We didn't...but we did have to wait a good twenty minutes for one.  Good night, though!
surprise	tweets	@McCainBlogette Congrats!  I cuss like that in a matter of minutes, But didn't know until now there is a reward for it.
joy	tweets	@mismile when are u gonna host Saturday night live!! i've been waiting for like 2 yearsssssss!!
joy	tweets	@LucasBlack Yeah, I know! Thanks so much
surprise	tweets	nice turn of phrase from @samsoir &quot;Wakey wakey eggs and bakey! Time for coffee and the back to code!&quot; have fun at  #openhacklondon today
surprise	tweets	@titanite My ex-colleagues from Shaanxi kept boasting of their native noodles. So I'm REALLY curious about Shaanxi food.
joy	tweets	good morning everyone
joy	tweets	@lauraaaknight grr @ naplan. just finished my commerce &amp; geo exams  good luck (Y)
joy	tweets	@krystynchong  E3? Nice! I wish i could go! make sure to take tons of pictures!!!
surprise	tweets	@PeachiKeen AH! STEPH TWEETS!
joy	tweets	I got a Coach purse
joy	tweets	@officialTila YES!! I wanna come hang out with my H-TOWN gurl u know whats up!! haha @MrDeNiro it'll be bangin! We gotta hang out chick
surprise	tweets	Had a great time singing karaoke with the fam...good times
joy	tweets	@erikmd you should sing out loud
joy	tweets	@ashgen sounds good!! Can't wait
surprise	tweets	I'm going to town on these two dinner rolls and some dark chocolate  yummmm
surprise	tweets	Happy Mothers Day people. i love my mom a lot still
joy	tweets	@devilsnight Hey, that's my Bug! And my martini glasses . . .
joy	tweets	@LindseyMadonna I'm glad for you  I'm fine, thanks. Just another night full of M
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake Hey I saw SNL 2nite&amp;I loved it!! especially the crumpin' tit-boob scene  &quot;crumpin'34 dub&quot; wow hilarious
joy	tweets	Finally got Xbox Live up and running again, stupid router, ah well. Serious gaming time later on
joy	tweets	@ayende LOL it's not the army it's starfleet, rules are meant to be broken to get the job done. That's why he gets the medal
joy	tweets	@kevpar he was soooo great!!! loved him! He was so good live, haha it poured on us though... makes it that much better!
joy	tweets	i met one of the nerdiest servers at chili's today lol... he was awesome and i was his favorite
joy	tweets	@DonEads  Cool...a VERY productive day! I just got a spot as an extra in a feature film that is filming tomorrow  AWESOME week all around!
joy	tweets	@jamiedelaine the wedding was amazing and I'm not gonna lie... I can't wait to see the pics either!
surprise	tweets	pretty bummed that it had to rain last nite! oh well  still had fun! Goldfish is highly overrated!
joy	tweets	night improved.
joy	tweets	@Carlkr please wear glasses in your next video!  you look amazing in them.
joy	tweets	@MOAM66 I love old school horror movies more, I got Elvira tattooed on my back
joy	tweets	@snakelady I'm sure she'll be fine. They're not as daft as they look (sometime)
joy	tweets	Had an awesome lunch with the family &amp; now dinner with the in-laws
joy	tweets	@TickleMeJoey goodnight baby loll jk night
joy	tweets	finally got home and get to sleep! had a great time with @jessimon and friends!
joy	tweets	@Spandexx hahahaha wtf dianne????? who twitters that lol...i guess it depends who the person is.....
joy	tweets	@andyclemmensen haha well then maybe u shouldn't be so weak  hehe jks  xx
joy	tweets	@cyberprvideo heard of. And you're the first to mention him to me!
joy	tweets	just got home. today was fun
joy	tweets	likes the smell of the roast in the oven mmmmmm must have dips and sakatas to tide me over till the roast is cooked
surprise	tweets	Grinding Skyguard rep. This is less awful than I anticipated. Yet, still awful. Last tabard I need
joy	tweets	@Afrykah heyyy girl.. havent tweeted u all week. hope all is well with you
joy	tweets	@maliamorgan Thanks for following!
surprise	tweets	@FinIsKing thanx 4 thee follow
joy	tweets	Girsl night ! on my way to foam party  No sleep tonight !!
joy	tweets	@philritchie Boom, and if you will, boom! Saw the movie last night - really enjoyed it
joy	tweets	@DirtySteveRock I decided you should help me make my first solo album
joy	tweets	All in all this has so far gone so much better than expected.sure helps to have raised a dog before and i feel im doing things right
joy	tweets	heeey heeey!   about to go read...
joy	tweets	Just burped at the same exact time as Steph LMFA0
joy	tweets	My goodness! I go single and shit goes crazy! Haha. Fuck this. I like being single too much. I do what I want...holla!
joy	tweets	@tommcfly You're welcome!  Actually, the all Swedish fans are trying to get McFly to  us! We are very close now
joy	tweets	this one's for the children..the children of the world....again i say happy mommies day to all and me too
joy	tweets	@tarabellejeanne awhhh It was so nice to see you.
joy	tweets	@JackAllTimeLow it was fun anyway..thanks for taking pics with us last minute
joy	tweets	Amost there
joy	tweets	@amber_benson thanks for the message! been a fan since forever; actually met you back in '03. So glad I stumbled upon your twitter
joy	tweets	@jaimedr Thanks for the recommendation
joy	tweets	I wanna say happy mother's day to all the mom's including mine love u mama
joy	tweets	@sashagrey since I'm reading the Twilight series and watching Underworld today, I gotta say...perfect pic for my day
joy	tweets	well Sunday the weather looks great gone take my bike to visite my mom on her day
joy	tweets	tonight was fun
joy	tweets	@eavellan that was so much fun! the banana dessert alone is worth the trip to austin! we'll be back soon
joy	tweets	first night sleeping in my new home
joy	tweets	Watching videos on youtube with the bf.  Thinking about going to bed soon.
joy	tweets	laundry and loud music.... relaxing
joy	tweets	45 minutes until im off from work. I guess i'll go back to work in 15 minutes. It's slow today thank god for one of those days
joy	tweets	@jemambrose congrats!!!  I highly doubt u'll have buyer's remorse...u've wanted that car for a while.
joy	tweets	@RetroRewind it is sooo hard.... truck and fish please
surprise	tweets	happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	@Chi_twnzfinest Happy birthday, sweetie. Have a great day in the best place of the word (sorry Chicago  jeje
joy	tweets	my sidekick is awkward flashing. oh well. leaving my mommy out her flowers and stuff
joy	tweets	@peaches5068 Happy mom's day to you too
surprise	tweets	add me up: http://profiles.friendster.com/americanidolislove  friendster.
joy	tweets	Night peeps. Hope you all had a great day! Untill tomorrow.
joy	tweets	Goin to bed. Goodnight everyone.
joy	tweets	finally leavin tha studio.Made some really really good music! Very pleased wit tha turnout  !
joy	tweets	@janine_j9 Jess just posted some hawt pics on the board J ... u should check them out...
joy	tweets	T9R8AM booked. im arriving medan on 27th june. 1155hours
surprise	tweets	@Movin925fm When I heard &quot;No One&quot; from Alicia Keys like, 10 minutes ago? You made my night
joy	tweets	Well, it was very inspirative day. There's no room for design in todays schedule, so i'm heading to bed
joy	tweets	@KellyShibari @AmberCadabra @Mollena All this flirting going on - The ATG smiles. Yay.  ((hugs))
joy	tweets	PUSH was amazing
surprise	tweets	Going to bed, stores are closed
surprise	tweets	i think i just about have all my info syncing properly between my mac, mobile me, and iphone. yay! finally
joy	tweets	this thing really demands a lot of time! anyways, gotta get some breakfast and watch naruto's latest episode
joy	tweets	@EricS576 Thank you! You know I really love 'BHB'
joy	tweets	@Nat4daWorks hope the show is going well!  just wanted u to know that im home now.. muah!
joy	tweets	New day in new home   happy mom day 2 me!
joy	tweets	Six flags was awesome can't wait to go back
joy	tweets	@ home with my lovey.. Busy day td.. Baby shower.. Then a wedding.. Made 2 pies.. Now bed
joy	tweets	Look, everyone! I'm a bad boy! I'm ranked higher than Meghan McCain!  http://tinyurl.com/oj76mz
joy	tweets	homee from wango tango, i had fun  really tired now. wrapping moms present and passing out. &lt;3
joy	tweets	Won a gps at post prom
joy	tweets	Bored...um...Song of the day: &quot;I caught myself by Paramore&quot; and &quot;No good deed from the musical Wicked&quot;  Oh! And Fully Alive by Flyleaf!!!
joy	tweets	Finally home after a night of dinner and drinking with friends.  Going to sleep now, hoping the bed doesn't spin too much.
joy	tweets	@ztnewetnorb hha yeah  like they have your heart too but weve met shaun and bradie... it seems more real ;)
surprise	tweets	@MattBovell I think he meant this pic - I don't know what other one he might have seen! But really - this is as hot as it gets
joy	tweets	Nungguin my Sista in law lahiran di RS Asih...kayaknya sih sore ini lahiran. Yeayy another baby girl in the family
joy	tweets	@GeorgiaPrincez Like you're not enjoying the hell out if it.
surprise	tweets	GOODNiGHT...HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MAMi'S ON TWiTTER
joy	tweets	@andrewkfromaz Thanks dear, I know this, but I appreciate the validation as always
joy	tweets	@frombecca Oh yum - rhubarb. These links are fab. Thanks
joy	tweets	@caatheedee maybe you should greet her for good.
surprise	tweets	Up and breakfasted, about to jump in shower then heading off to the land of the black pudding for playoff part 2
surprise	tweets	@PaintByWord, word!?
joy	tweets	Laying in bed with a book &amp; some beautiful music.  thank you kaki &amp; nicholas sparks.
joy	tweets	@SharneseLaNier Thanks hon, doing great and yourself? Happy Mothers Day
surprise	tweets	according to mary chaayaa, i look like a sexy emo in my dp  i not emo.
joy	tweets	@Meshel_Laurie sending love, blessings &amp; healing thoughts to you &amp; family  peace
joy	tweets	feelin a bit 'dangerous'. off to watch tha vids  http://bit.ly/9X0Us
joy	tweets	nice night  bed time; work from 4:30-8:45 tomorrow
joy	tweets	Dancing in the rain makes of complete
joy	tweets	@michaellington hahaha that made me laugh
surprise	tweets	So fresh n clean
surprise	tweets	Obama's Speech at the Correspondents Association - He has promised to complete his next 100 days in 72  http://tinyurl.com/qmu8mk
surprise	tweets	The night is still young ;) &lt;3
joy	tweets	@BrisbaneGirl I like tweetie better, that is what I use all the time
joy	tweets	@Afrykah Happy Mothersday btw! Look at the bright side, you can chill all day today
joy	tweets	@lavvocato got it. Welchs grape too please
joy	tweets	@JoelMadden great song even if i can't understand lol
joy	tweets	Reminiscing my old days by listening to old music.
joy	tweets	time for mimi's
surprise	tweets	@CPE24 I was waiting on him to tell me what he want
joy	tweets	@jojowright I will bring you cases of mountain dew if you give @_Slamma_ 2 tixs to see taylor swift!
joy	tweets	If someone have a friendster profy!,.just add me!,.ayt!?,.lol!,.http://bit.ly/UsPlN !
joy	tweets	third date went well....moving on to fourth!!!!!!
surprise	tweets	@pane2 Really! No even a little bit of #pane
joy	tweets	@solangeknowles HAPPY MOTHERS DAY  I hope you'll have a great day today
joy	tweets	Back from hospital. Doc says I'll live
joy	tweets	Wango tango!!! Good night all
joy	tweets	is addicted to the pet society app on facebook
joy	tweets	@adnamay Yup  On to Mother's Day. Any plans for your birthday?
joy	tweets	@cloud79 I thought the same thing, but felt a bit better when I saw no less than 5 other cameras there
surprise	tweets	just bought 5 bouquets of flowers and put em all together and arranged them all pretty for my momma in the morning!  ::proud of myself::
joy	tweets	no clubs...no parties...ive spent my friday and saturday night workin on music and am quit content
joy	tweets	I'm Christine and I'm a friggin' shopaholic. Check out my new coat  Had to promise someone I wouldn't spend for 2 weeks after buying this
joy	tweets	Goodnight fellow twitters and tj ststas
joy	tweets	&quot;The weather outside is weather&quot; hahah made me feel better
joy	tweets	Great day...Rode the beach cruisers into town to see Culver City Antique Car Show. Found my next bike.   http://twitpic.com/4wn71
joy	tweets	@prateek_agwl Talking to whom? This 'Shah Rukh Khan' is an imposter here... LOL! BTW thanx for the follow...
joy	tweets	Cum fiesta at my house in my mouth  hit me up for the password
joy	tweets	@guittaraxx Trust me, that's a GOOD thing. Your 40-something self will thank you.
joy	tweets	Seeing my brother graduate tomorrow. Should be fun.
joy	tweets	@B_Wright THANK YOU! &quot;Return of the Mack&quot; is THE jam!
surprise	tweets	@nicaliciousx hale yeahhh that's the coolest part about it ;) hahaha. And I can match grieco!
surprise	tweets	@7thscreen Damn! First Yes, than Frank Zappa...
joy	tweets	@Toongen before he could do it. So, so sad. You should read it
joy	tweets	@filos @elliottucker thanks for the r/t, I was hoping I had some *classy* followers
joy	tweets	@DawnRichard Dawwwwwwwwwwwwn, I hit u back and told u y..........so please Read it, and pray before u decide
joy	tweets	is going home after an awesome time with the peeps
surprise	tweets	Actual wiki entry &quot;The Million Dollar Homepage&quot; made me just shake my head due to the fact that ... sometimes...somtimes things just work
joy	tweets	Signing off for the night. Watching &quot;The Reader&quot; and I'm sure I'll snooze off at some point. Good night all
joy	tweets	it's midnight.
joy	tweets	drunkfda twittering is lone of my favorite hobbies&lt;3 being drunk is my PROFESSIONNNNN
joy	tweets	random night of fun  now im chillin at home.. happy mothers day!
joy	tweets	my hair doesn't look completely retarded. success
joy	tweets	To every mom, mommy and mother, Happy Mother's Day   Hope you all do something special and fun today.
joy	tweets	@a_tall_blonde   ~~Hello~~~  and thanks for the follow.
joy	tweets	@chillman2 dude... Can you really be a bachelor at this point?? Don't worry about it.
joy	tweets	@pjhoody &quot;It's your birthday, so I know you wanna riiidddddeeee out!&quot; Have fun in the club
joy	tweets	On her way home from prom  so fun!
joy	tweets	eeehhh. my right eye's twitching. gonna go and watch Boystown. @camerontdf happy birthday!
surprise	tweets	oh about you lol sorry my minds always on you
joy	tweets	Had the Best lazy/really productive day ever. So many options lay ahead of me.  My only job is prioritize them  Thank u universe. -Luv DD
joy	tweets	@David_Kaufer Well, I am crossing my fingers!  We have another year so, lots of hope in my heart! We will see! Thx! G'night!
joy	tweets	@BrainiacSociety have fun at the viper room tomorrow night  i know the fam out there will be in attendance to support all of yall
joy	tweets	@devyra lol you always make me happy.  i promise i won't. lol its only 1 silly. you are up late too my friend
joy	tweets	@Milzyxx just hanging with my bestie
joy	tweets	@DebbieFletcher Happy Mothers Day! i hope tom got you something special! enjoy day!  xo
joy	tweets	haha @ playing fall out boy in a bar full of older people.  they's need to be educate.
joy	tweets	Mariana ~ Photography by Cassone's May 2009 Feature http://bit.ly/E2bjm  - Thanks so much
surprise	tweets	@Alexxstar wow thot we'd lost ya lol lol
surprise	tweets	@SFOBear Goodnight!!!!!!
joy	tweets	Michael Cera has a new movie!
joy	tweets	is resting. ahhhhh. I feel good
joy	tweets	Ryan Stiles is still the funniest man ever. Got some great news and some not great news tonight. So happy I could burst
joy	tweets	@howie_d It's a pleassure making you both smile.  Have a nice day and you are making me smile as well being on twitter.. aahhh nice..
surprise	tweets	@yuyaymimi Okay, make sure he's alright kk? Cuidalo. Let him know he's a got friend in us aha..
joy	tweets	@superannuation haha i'll keep that in mind  so far, i reckon i have enough money to stop my hair greying when i retire ;D
joy	tweets	@DavidArchie : Hi, i think u should try Ph? in Vietnam, it's really quite delicious
joy	tweets	@HornyMe I was kiddin' with you. Shy is not a word i'd use to describe me
joy	tweets	/ happy mommy's day
joy	tweets	@PsychoBeauty word?? ima be there this summer....just move back with me  lol
disgust	tweets	(@Pina) i dont know why i follow sme of the ppl that i do... they e anoying and boring. * note to self -unfollow peeps on monday morning
joy	tweets	yum - mother's day lunch at The Food Business in Burnside was delicious! such a gorgeous day
joy	tweets	colds nearly gone, yayness!! greys anatomy on tonight . . . . . .double yay!
joy	tweets	This is the best E-commerce site, I hope you've watched the big bang theory. http://www.pennyblossoms.com/ Please hit &quot;buy now&quot;
joy	tweets	Hecks yeah. Jandy timsamlake is too rawesome!
joy	tweets	listening to jubey snoring on the phone  hehe goodnight
joy	tweets	@christinawrites look who I found just for you  ---&gt;  http://twitter.com/DJT2009
joy	tweets	@ferrao California waiting, every little thing's gotta be just right ? Putz, adoro essa banda
joy	tweets	@vimoh there are other signs too  of twitter addiction!!  Levels from 1 to 6.... LOL I am probably on level 4 ... lol
joy	tweets	@ChesterBaker not so awesome now, huh? LOL
joy	tweets	@ScottATaylor Other than that, you are totally bereft of faults in every way
disgust	tweets	@DanniPandemos ok .... Here 409 is a cleaning soln .... Blah.... Over and out
joy	tweets	Wow.... I thought we'd only be gaming for 8 hours but here I am 13 hours later seeing the last person out. &lt;_&lt; Long session, but fun.
surprise	tweets	@tomricci And how!  It's already been 1 year, it'll be WWDC 2010 before you know it.
joy	tweets	I'm Still Celebrating My Bday Even Though It Was Friday
joy	tweets	Recovery! The secret weapon of a Dba  glad 2 hav my files back
joy	tweets	@jtimberlake Very funny Thanks
joy	tweets	@Idolfanaddict haha. u can look up best week ever podcast on iTunes. it is May 1 episode  he seems more relaxed &amp; funnier than on Idol.
joy	tweets	I had a super cool dream last night. @TheEllenShow asked me and @danify to be on her show. Wooowww.  *hopes it will come true* )
joy	tweets	@Seicra_The_BC well, in the end, everyone's happy (most of the time)
joy	tweets	Just used my last DVD-R for the Windows 7 ISO. Next batch will be Lightscribe dicsc - I want to see how that works
surprise	tweets	surprisingly had a wonderful day
joy	tweets	reality needs to check in. schools over. time to party  not tonight tho, im going to bed. night, night.
joy	tweets	@Austra Thank you for smoking!!!!!!  viennoziimiigi
joy	tweets	@BarryManilow Not been on for a while eh Barry lol.Tweet deck is like prehistoric lol
joy	tweets	Just had a great study time followed by a delicious Japanese meal with Arty! Now, trying to get back into the study mood
joy	tweets	Stack on deck patron and sprite on ice baby he said I can have whatever I like... Right @ajaleigh?
joy	tweets	@burbleon hope your dreams don't come true
joy	tweets	@LimeIce *happy to help*
joy	tweets	@npyskater Thank you!
joy	tweets	@cherrythegreat hay naku!!madaya ka talaga ah hehe ..hey happy mothers day to your mom nga pala  @baditz and to your mom also
joy	tweets	@kerkat28 i posted it! let me know what you think? theres a really cute cut out in the back too.
joy	tweets	ahhh, i FINALLY went to yogurtland.  i saved my spoon. hahaha.
joy	tweets	@starreemoon yes!  Glad you're coming.
joy	tweets	tried oprahs free unfried kfc and loved it  i went back for another try and topped it with boba and wolverine.Chilled with pope,dave,ben
joy	tweets	joininghe bandwagon.... wheeeeeeeeeeee.
joy	tweets	Watching some movie and playin on my computer.
joy	tweets	@oscarrplz thanks oscc  i have been changing it up lately, and I like this layout the most &lt;33
joy	tweets	Thinkin' Twitter is interesting.
joy	tweets	Can't wait 4 a real bed!  haha
joy	tweets	@BB517  so far surprisingly good responses. My dad offered to airbrush the old logo on the wall..but I think that might be overkill
joy	tweets	@emilyjonesmusic  awww thank you
joy	tweets	Just for fun: Jessica Alba weekly Twitter follower count: 35,138 (+5,468). This is starting to look like a movement.  @RealJessicaAlba
joy	tweets	slept for 11 hours after an exhausting but a fun fun out of town trip. high for the day so far? woke up to good ol' fried chicken
joy	tweets	@DinoLich I know! But I still want to see it
joy	tweets	@GabrielSaporta @SUAREASY @NovarroNate you guys were absolutely amazing tonight, as always. thanks for always bringing the dance party.
joy	tweets	@Sayshunshow Hi  how are you doing ???  *just joined twitter...*
joy	tweets	@xennyeh FUCK YEAH DUDE!!! I would ask how it was, but I already fucking know!  How're you?
joy	tweets	@JT_NigerianBoi thanks JT i also enjoyed it i will. r u following me? ill follow u back
joy	tweets	Drivin home and listenin to 50! fucking lightweights! left me stag! bullshit!  love you though  especially you toesha  haha HA!
joy	tweets	It seems like everyone us watching X-Men now, I feel like I've started a revolution  feels nice
joy	tweets	PB&amp;J makes me happier than anything else in the world  I love that when I'm tired, my demands are so simply met
joy	tweets	still awake.. will get some sleep i have to drive to Fortuna early.. Red Bull will guide me
joy	tweets	@bethharperwalsh @TaiLi22 @thesolutions @hippiekat from g's to gents season 1
joy	tweets	this one goes out to Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake...doin' their Gibb Bros show on SNL  ? http://blip.fm/~5z1vd
joy	tweets	i have a whole day planned for my mom today that i know she will love!
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all you tweeting mothers
surprise	tweets	sweet situations.
joy	tweets	for some strange reason, 'paranoid' sounds like U2. but i love them too, so it's aaaaall good.
joy	tweets	Finally home  Gonna hit the hay n sleep till noon lol
joy	tweets	@Scarlettx3 omg i forgot about that! you lucky thing! hope you have fun!!  x
joy	tweets	@gretchenrubin I love this!!  our body should tell us how much sleep it needs, and its always good to be mindful at mealtimes
joy	tweets	@glennguan your test works fine for me  tweetdeck is so cool eh?
joy	tweets	@RetroRewind working out to your station - cool. Love yer music  kk back to the sweating part .....lol l8a xxx
joy	tweets	@crazymadzy hahahahah!! 04 would be the chief contributors. lol.
joy	tweets	@michellephant it was nice, we didn't stay long because we all got a hotel room.
joy	tweets	Wooow, I haven't charged my iPod Touch all day today, and it's still ALIVE! That's so coolio
joy	tweets	is getting ready for an awesome service!  - http://tweet.sg
joy	tweets	@yvasquez82 Thank you sister!!
joy	tweets	that was a fun bacontaco night
joy	tweets	D-group Saturday's, with a little bit of football, an hour nap, 3 hours of soccer, basketball in the TSU and Yogurtland... Life's Good
surprise	tweets	@jamie_oliver No Happy Mums day for the Mums, only the guys????
joy	tweets	@chachada1 Yeah im following you, Hun! Goodnight
joy	tweets	spent a little too much $ at Wombat, but it's cool 'cuz it was time to take care of Tamara good.  YAY!
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there!
surprise	tweets	@baconvodka Alternate name for a &quot;Bacon Mary&quot;... A &quot;Bloody Piggy!&quot; ;) (I have to give my boyfriend credit for that idea!)
joy	tweets	just put the brats to bed, now im chillin with noodle
joy	tweets	Cultural tour 102 by loiusa's family: kangaroo sight-seeing in cemetary. Lovely
joy	tweets	Ian is waiting for a very important pic
joy	tweets	@TheUnclean Thanks. Busy as fuck is good in my book.
surprise	tweets	Amazing night at the drive in
joy	tweets	@sarieee thanks for finding the amusing rubiks pictures tonight. making my evening via @chrisfreeman ...
joy	tweets	I have a better idea: need a couple hour of relax. bed time. Sweet dreams to everyone!  love u all
surprise	tweets	@MarkMayhew True - to each his own  I would let my sis do what she wanted. Work or I'd help her. Up to her, really.
joy	tweets	@gnat So what does that make a queef
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day  http://bit.ly/LRSnG
surprise	tweets	@gulersem Kazim Kazim  i didn't know that name )))
joy	tweets	@officialTila that is my idea of good dinner  happy munchin
joy	tweets	@stuntazian I still have them!! Yay! Gonna eat some now
joy	tweets	@nianoelle Hey Nia! I used to be the PD at Hot 102.9 in Dayton. I met you in Cincinnati at the Wiz Christmas party. Hope all is well!
joy	tweets	finally gonna get sum sleep  that concert was crazy!!! God Bless those ministers!!!
joy	tweets	Now I'm off to bed - HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY ALL - HAVE A GREAT ONE
joy	tweets	Just got back from @LorenaJimenez 's party! Sooo much fun! Boom boom pow~ hahaha! ooh and I just told my mom happy mother's day
joy	tweets	@smartiej Sounds lovely, hope you have a great day
joy	tweets	Ive been passed out drunk for the passed couple of hours.  Good to go now
joy	tweets	I don't think I've ever been up this early on a Sunday in a while. Meanwhile, the #bigweekend awaits!
joy	tweets	social was fun. Swam in the water in my boxers
joy	tweets	Happy anniversary to @tayloredot and @hellohouston. You know whyyyy. Three years baby!!!
joy	tweets	off to a date with vaahedh! -_- well...atleast its the last one
joy	tweets	@shaunduke That sounds like a good compromise.
surprise	tweets	#web20 .#prologue - Modern Liberalism, Misconstrued (2nd 1/2 of Bible  -- &quot;Christ -- without the Crucifiction&quot;  Abstraction w/o 'Skin'
joy	tweets	@LeslieCraig haha maybe someday I will be your publicist! that's what i am going to school for
surprise	tweets	Yippee! Happy birthday to me
joy	tweets	FINALLY finished studying, 7 pages of double sided notes later... off to cook tea and dessert now. Happy Mother's Day!!
joy	tweets	is thinking what song to use for the next chilled edition video!
joy	tweets	I'M FEELING GREAT!
joy	tweets	http://bit.ly/5e7dr  this is cool, van helden.
joy	tweets	Word to all those i call mom, and there are a lot of yall.. HAPPY MOTHERS DAY  i love you all!
joy	tweets	@azaxacavabanama  kashtam ! wonder what would be the similey  for CSK
joy	tweets	Watchin TV. HAPPY MOMS DAY.
joy	tweets	enjoying lazying around eating roses chocolates  x
joy	tweets	Finallyy done !! And done clean'n lay'n down time 4 bed.. goshh its 3 o'clock !! Lol nite nite twitta heads
surprise	tweets	@shawnemerriman go to vegas, but don't spend all ur money!!!!
joy	tweets	@rohanbabu I brought a buffalo 320gb for 3800...it has the fastest transfer rate for a usb hdd...I benchmarked it at 34mb/s on my comp!!!
joy	tweets	@Sanazypoo OMG!! Hahaha! I thought you were joking about Twittering that, hahaha!! Awesome, good times were had by all
joy	tweets	About to go to sleep. Fun
joy	tweets	@xantherrific online! www.dujourmag.com/subscribe
joy	tweets	It turns out I'm really, like, sixty years old, guys. You were right!!!!!  I'm off to seek my future a little later than planned!
surprise	tweets	@PumpkinPeazy Aww Thank u hun i cant believe ah  i will send you when i look pc =D cuz im login from mobile.i will send you,dear friend ^
joy	tweets	@FrankieFiction Thankies.  I'll never be able to watch the movie Madagascar the same way again... hehe.
joy	tweets	@flygirls &quot;Mom set the bar so high I need to learn to fly to reach it!&quot; -- now THAT's an awesome sentiment to read on Mother's Day.
joy	tweets	@nlouisem thanks!!
joy	tweets	@fedgrub  dull life was on the soundtrack of one of my favourite showss
joy	tweets	@MorganH03 Thanks for a great night, dear.  Perfectly completed my weekend.
surprise	tweets	@zelciia weird. I tot it will usually rain east coast first. And east coast usually gets more rain.
joy	tweets	I am having the TIME of my LIFE
joy	tweets	@simoncurtis HAHA ...Your Hotter Than Justin Timberlake
joy	tweets	@EmmaCL thanks
joy	tweets	@FelixKev hey Kev - keep with it. It seems crap at first but will def be worthwhile! Add LOADS of people, much more interesting
joy	tweets	just rocked home from maccas, and now signing a petition for big bang to tour aus  LOL
joy	tweets	Oh that just made my evening.  I forgot Merlin was on tonight!  But its a toss up between Rove and Spielburg on Spielburg on ABC2 choices.
joy	tweets	@erniehalter yay Happy Mothers Day to me  Screw burnt breakfast in bed I'll take some E.  (erniehalter live &gt; http://ustre.am/2VkO)
joy	tweets	...WITH PENNEY! thank you for letting me in at 11 at night
joy	tweets	@Buddhistethics  congratulations  were you being mindful through the run as well or / and listening to music?
joy	tweets	assumes it wasnt so taboo to start an email with &quot;LOL&quot; considering that the reply it got started with &quot;ROFL. PWN3D.&quot; I love the internet!
joy	tweets	Had a great time with mpix shootout, just great  thanks mpix...
joy	tweets	first day on new job,, bought a new clothes already and it was 40% off for employee discount!
joy	tweets	@lamarjmorgan looks like you need a local marketing person. I'm booked for 2 gigs in Vegas that day
joy	tweets	@great_northern http://twitpic.com/4wiqv - Awwww she looks like one of my kitty  little furry balls are the best!
joy	tweets	Finally home, watching saturday night live, then dreaming about my amanda boo
joy	tweets	@rayamartin http://twitpic.com/4wlpv - whooooooooooooa!!!!!!!!!!!! ang ganda ko dito ha!!!  thank you!
joy	tweets	still playing wii fit LOL fun fun fun,, movies tonight ill upload photos i took today right now check next tweet
surprise	tweets	Just finishing shooting, can u believe it, but got the job done
joy	tweets	Went to a party last night. Dindin and I showed up in matching outfits ) GREAT MINDS THINK ALIKE ) Anyway, happy birthday, ate lara
joy	tweets	@erniehalter love your voice  sing Whisper!   (erniehalter live &gt; http://ustre.am/2VkO)
joy	tweets	Missing my mother... t-11 days! HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY!!
joy	tweets	Hey cool: http://oproer.com/twwwitter/
joy	tweets	Just got off the phone with lainey the love of my life  . . . Now im taken a crap
joy	tweets	had a great night with some old friends...we're still &quot;home-town heroes&quot;....some things never change
joy	tweets	IS PHONE FUCKING WITH TYSON
joy	tweets	N now the end to another wise great nite! Excuse me while I dream a little dream
joy	tweets	I love how when I leave my laptop on my bed it creates a nice toasty spot
surprise	tweets	@jason_2008 thanks  there's a men's version in June. It's very popular.
joy	tweets	Had fun early night Vegas because Pool tomorrow
surprise	tweets	hello twittttty world! how do you do?
joy	tweets	Had a blast, babe. Thanks joe. &lt;3  i love everyone! Tyler...happy birthday.
joy	tweets	cynthia and jenny are spamming my twitter! haha
joy	tweets	@vivanews_com All breaking news will be tweeted here I hope  welcome to twitter!
surprise	tweets	ouch i have a headache. but i am in a ridiculously good mood
joy	tweets	Kandice and I just found 'Baby Sailor Blue' at Casey Moores  http://yfrog.com/0ltrdaj
joy	tweets	@jen004 Nope, not &quot;done&quot; yet
joy	tweets	Shite night, tomorow, I get to hang out with my little brother and neice, should be sufficient enough to change my mood
joy	tweets	@Jae878  thanks  I'm holding my mini laser light thingy lol. How are u?
joy	tweets	@michaelmagical #warmfuzzies to you, my friend
joy	tweets	boopboopboop. still talking to ashley &amp; brittany.  i've been talking to ashley for forever, and our convo still goes places. we're awesome
joy	tweets	@MISS_OTTAWA ur welcome, sweet dreams!
joy	tweets	@bribee84 LOL too funny!!!  I love my Angels hehe
joy	tweets	@johncmayer lol that just totally made me laugh, which made my day
joy	tweets	@SarinneJonas thats so cool
joy	tweets	success!
joy	tweets	@JackieShimamoto i love cobra starship!!  thanks for the suggestion!
joy	tweets	@jojowright thank you, god bless im going to eaat my in in out
joy	tweets	@patriciaco Youtube. ) Really awesome quality, actually.
joy	tweets	@lexi_bexi I totally and completely agree
joy	tweets	just watched what happens in vegas  it was really good
joy	tweets	Ready to crash!...had a great day and a FUN night! I couldn't ask for anything more  Night!
joy	tweets	I didn't check Twitter till just now. Thanks everyone for all the Congrats! I really really appreciate it  #fb
surprise	tweets	And they are so censoring over at nin.com, nobody can really speculate about these things are disagree with anything
joy	tweets	@salece the green one! It's limey
surprise	tweets	Loves when hard work pays off. Yay for being nominated for the National Society of Collegiate Scholars!! Wow!!
joy	tweets	@DebbieZachry very relaxing thank you. Hope you get to put your feet up tomorrow and enjoy the day
surprise	tweets	Finally back in bed with my puppies after a LONG week in Jamaica. loved it, but lve to be home too!! Night
joy	tweets	@dpfdpf probably something to do with FriendFeed
surprise	tweets	Something strange in the air lately. Been setting everyone on edge. Going to do a good smudging of the house. Good to do those anyway
joy	tweets	@jordansgirl81 they can be a drag,,but for the most part they come in HANDY  hee hee
joy	tweets	if i ran the mile to mcdonalds and ran the mile back would that burn off a double sausage and egg mcmuffin lol
joy	tweets	@vieriu I am blessed beyond measure
joy	tweets	watching snl with my ucsd girls and laughing about twitter/blackberry jokes  thought i'd tweet that.
joy	tweets	Also I was conviced to do a happy dance and then told it was the most adorable happy dance ever
joy	tweets	We got JoJo in for free and free drinks for Mom! My kind of night
joy	tweets	@emmilyxoxo wow,that must be sooo cool
joy	tweets	@katehughes So what do you do when you wake up? Morning by the way
surprise	tweets	@michellem You have DSL? Welcome to 2009!
surprise	tweets	Hi tweete, surprised to see everyone still up...maybe it's the full moon
joy	tweets	@r_u_b_y_l totes it's gonna be fun as bi-otch. yeah she'll do it... we'll make her!!
surprise	tweets	@Dnldub Hey! I am back.  Been listening to retrorewind.  How you do always know everything.
joy	tweets	@teresanguyen oo ok. When I opened up twitterfon and it said I had a reply I was like lauren Conrad andswere me  haha
joy	tweets	had an okay day. but hanging out with brianna and saelina was good
joy	tweets	@nikkidang Yeah I've been going there for the last month!!  SO amaaaazing, I'll bring some back for you
joy	tweets	you tell yo mamma an em i axe how she durrin, and that i said happy mothers day.
joy	tweets	I want some candy!!!
surprise	tweets	@vobes Sounds a bit Alan Partridge  A-ha! (Good morning, by the way)
joy	tweets	@mistressmia had not heard the title or author before, must look it up  Enjoy
joy	tweets	@mcmike337 Yeaa I Know She is Smartier Then That, plus She Knows The real Thing Is Better Lol
joy	tweets	is having fun with the traditional family dinner party for Mother's Day...
surprise	tweets	addict to &quot;long time gone&quot;
joy	tweets	Good Morning and Happy Mothers Day everyone
joy	tweets	@jessicasydney i did, haha. i'll run is more suitable, at the moment.
joy	tweets	This is the earliest I've been up for ages! Body is crying to go back to sleep... Must resist! A shower should do the trick
joy	tweets	@Meshel_Laurie your dad is a superman for pulling through! Take it easy
joy	tweets	that boy over there is something worth admiring
joy	tweets	Ra'anana is a wonderful place
joy	tweets	Prism is the MY nEW wEBTOP.. mozilla labs rocks my world...
joy	tweets	@BB517 @mespptc Yeah I'm okay been icing and ace bandage and sitting on my @$$ on twitter... LOL Thanks
joy	tweets	@yongfook  ack ~ of course i'm a person! but i think @alaskamiller knows that
joy	tweets	@rhettroberts haha no, I was referring to the band... http://www.myspace.com/lcdsoundsystem
joy	tweets	@robdelete yo  what you think of last night? was good to see ya!
joy	tweets	Mango Medley has yummy mango and mango ice cream!
joy	tweets	@jason_2008 don't be sorry  you can race for charity or just for fun. I do this one for fun.
joy	tweets	Man, finishing &quot;Operation Anchorage&quot; sure gives you an unfair advantage, loot-wise... I love the stealth field suit and Gauss rifle
joy	tweets	@yinawu Happy Mother's Day  http://bit.ly/iJm54  (my friends made the video)
surprise	tweets	@slicedlime That your blog? - didn't realize I was following the blogger on my RSS feed! Great idea btw
joy	tweets	This morning is for smiling smugly to oneself. Anyone can join in
joy	tweets	@TomFelton awww. sooo adorable!  how old were u in that video?
joy	tweets	Sha and i are fcp/macbook pro buddies now.
surprise	tweets	@jo_locanawan: sure! Of course i'll pray for her too. Thank you, jo  send my warm regards to ur mom.: @jo_loc... http://bit.ly/Beih5
joy	tweets	Hahhahah I'm watching the greatest movie ever
joy	tweets	I'm going to see sweeney todd on stage with my best friend for her bday today (I know I'm going to be the one who sings along!!)
joy	tweets	@DelicatelyReal looool .. me 2 !! ana i will vote 7ag ele ye6le3ni taqa3od now
joy	tweets	@ahbilly are you in need of another kiss attack??
joy	tweets	@crystallynn09 I know!! Yayy
joy	tweets	@heidimontag - Bless you as well sweetie, and i hope you have a wonderful weekend
joy	tweets	@raytoro just kick their asses and call it a day.
joy	tweets	Alright, I think it's time for bed...even though I'll probably surf the net for another hour before I go to sleep lol! Goodnight
joy	tweets	@Emmieman So ur moomie liked the Pandora? you can buy me one next lol
surprise	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY !!
joy	tweets	@greggrunberg Can you please @elazar with that? I'd love some egg +bacon +ranch +bed for giving birth 3 times in 4 years!
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!
joy	tweets	@ddlovato demi if you can i think itd be amazing if you covered thats what you get by paramore haha im sure you know it
joy	tweets	G'night Twitterverse! Thanks for keeping me entertained!!
joy	tweets	@solobasssteve Morning, dude! Ivy has decided she wants to go on a boat today. Are you guys around this PM? Would be nice to see you.
joy	tweets	Hence the smiley face.  ha ha ha ha. Lol yeah i'm hong to be tired as fuck tomorrow. But guess what i do not care.
surprise	tweets	Happy mother's day to all the mom's! Love you mom
joy	tweets	@stanlopez awesome..am headin there that nite after my grad dinner  c u then boi! hehe
joy	tweets	can't believe I just drove all the way back to school...whatever HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY: Mommy, Precious, Candis and Granny
joy	tweets	@ryezzzzahh hahahaha yay!!!! Lakers!!! And I would please like some of that dip!!
joy	tweets	Travel blog up and running!  http://charlenedianetravels.blogspot.com Can't wait to start filling it up with entries! )
joy	tweets	@snarkandboobs LOL! I liked the log ride reference, but all I think about when I think of that ride is how wet you get
joy	tweets	Is pretty hammered drunk! Props to me! Two nights in a row!!!
surprise	tweets	stood for 4 hours in heels. all for looks and to b able to look over tall people.
joy	tweets	@nita49 A big ginger and white male cat and a little female tortoiseshell. Both indoor cats and rule the house
joy	tweets	@JoeJonas1Fan1 I know, me too!!
joy	tweets	is going to help lancey cook
joy	tweets	@stephenhartley Gotta love skype! Make sure you get their new update!
joy	tweets	@silverarcheress ah, ok  thank youuuuuu!
joy	tweets	@TomFelton Haha! What's it like looking back on work? Or fun, as I'm sure it was
joy	tweets	@pcsketch Well I am going to get off now so I'll talk to you later. Goodnight and good dreams
joy	tweets	@GriffReviews LOL yea I know! I'm almost done with my semester this week  yay!!
joy	tweets	niqhty niqht niqht .. all toqether, GREAT day  ;; @AyyoJayFresSh ily yall !!
joy	tweets	better get to sleep, dodger game/mothers day 2maro  ewl i have to wake up at 8!
joy	tweets	Morning People!  Just woke up now!
joy	tweets	Had a great night! Tomorrow is mothers day
joy	tweets	The sun is shining brightly and the day has just begun! What's in store? Wandering around les calanques maybe? Vin, definitely!
joy	tweets	Justin Timberlake and Leonard Nimoy? And a Dick in The Box sequel? priceless
joy	tweets	Thank you OpenDNS for saving me from Comcast's crappy DNS server. My internet is back up to par finally.
joy	tweets	@iMBA haha Good job getting close. Her eyes are set somewhere else though
joy	tweets	Wrestlefest was fun! Now tune into www.latalkradio.com from 2-3 sunday and chat with me
joy	tweets	My 100th post- dedicated to Sarah,sunny weather,and my love for that Snakes On A Plane (Bring It) song that should have died already.
surprise	tweets	Back after a tea and a blog post. A few more awake I see - good morning
joy	tweets	@camilleprats aaaw... that's very sweet of him. my girl friends gots to drag them hubbies just so we can &quot;nite-out&quot;. unless my beer. LoL
joy	tweets	sittin by the fire...yes!
joy	tweets	watchin my favie @themandymoore in because I said so..then catching up on much needed sleep!! goodnight
joy	tweets	@ernalicious36 @raerosero thanks homskis! Its like christmas!
surprise	tweets	@mousebudden ten update away from 2000 whooo hoooo budden!
joy	tweets	@katofawesome Praying for love in a lap dance, and paying in naivety. &lt;--One of my fav songs
joy	tweets	@tom_conrad you take such good photos.
joy	tweets	Listening to some house music!(what else?) I got a gig in San Francisco next Friday. BE THERE  details on my www.myspace.com/djspy
joy	tweets	@StevenSmith1990 Indeed, twitter is where its at mate, its all happening on here.  Enjoy. Hope to see you arou.. http://twurl.nl/j4o1xe
surprise	tweets	just now i know how twitter exactly work
surprise	tweets	@megspptc Okay will work on that too but please remind me again
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY to all of the wonderful women out there.  Have a great and relaxful day.
joy	tweets	browsing thru adopting agencies, i'm gonna get some exotic kids
joy	tweets	@mattgarner haha what's up Matt ?
joy	tweets	@KandyBee we shuld do  a dance like that its seriously the best thing haha. see yu tomoro.
joy	tweets	@TravelTweetie I will go to sleep now. Might be awakened early w/breakfast tray from my 'spark' &amp; my 'joper' w/their Dad's help
joy	tweets	@nak1a &quot;If there's a camel up a hill&quot; and &quot;I'll give you plankton&quot; ....HILARIOUS!!
joy	tweets	Home. Tonight was fun  thanks!
joy	tweets	On my way home...then SLEEP! Seeing Amber Pacific tomorow with the besties
joy	tweets	@xoMusicLoverxo I'm using it in a story. I actually already wrote it but have to write the chapters before it.
surprise	tweets	@poptrashmusic How's your dog?
surprise	tweets	@misterchun tts ridiculously sweet of you
joy	tweets	...definitely the first time I've felt alive again in years. Super happy
joy	tweets	@trekkerguy Yeah, I have seen the reviews and they are great! It is just that the reviews surprised me. Now getting tickets for tonight
joy	tweets	@joyfrequencies Yes, but I'm quite rusty.  I'm hoping to get back to it and &quot;tune up&quot; my skills.  Tim plays guitar.  We threaten duets.
surprise	tweets	@daNanner Hi there! Nice to meet you
joy	tweets	@blp2008 lol yep  tell rhonda i said happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	@laurenkel pancakes!! with lemon and sugar thanks!
joy	tweets	It's not my best writing, well i don't think. LOL. but it's some! I'd read it all if i were you!  It's pretty damn good after all! =}. LOL
surprise	tweets	@tourscotland Enjoy - we know you will
joy	tweets	@RisaRM I tried replying to your mono lake tweet but dunno what happened. Just said I know that lake very well.
joy	tweets	Wine..beer..and champagne..lets see how that goes for me tomorrow..lol
surprise	tweets	@boilerfan_98 Damn, that's my favorite part...lol...ok, i'll just keep in stock alot then
joy	tweets	Just got home from morongo.. Havin a corona  Won 100 bucks woo! Lol I wish it woulda been 100,000 instead :-/
joy	tweets	@WestEndActress Haha same as miine
joy	tweets	is back from the play cafe, was great to enjoy a coffee while the boys played, have some Rose choccies for later when the boys are in bed
joy	tweets	tonight my bed has been the Enterprise and I was Mrs Kirk
joy	tweets	I ate a foot long from subway like an hour ago! OMG! I'm happy and full. I hadn't ate since b-fast.  happy Lis.
joy	tweets	@kayleelovexx love those panties
surprise	tweets	Happy Mothers Day Mommy!!! I love you &amp;&amp; your the best...
joy	tweets	Sasha's helped too, of course
joy	tweets	@MarshaCollier It was indeed, an excellent movie.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4woxi - Btw, concert was freaking awesome
joy	tweets	@tommcfly i saw you on tues and last niiiighht &lt;3 so amazzzing, didnt even notice you forgetting the wordddss
joy	tweets	i saw my credit-card statement. maybe i should receive the unholy Aiden fan package!! yaaaaay.
joy	tweets	@candyconquest Yes you are, thanks  Haha you do? Field of flowers don't exist in Singapore, well not ones that you can frolick in:S
joy	tweets	@CSI_PrintChick exactly! Thats the first time i saw his @ reply to Jon. Never going there again. Oh have fun with d new phone.
joy	tweets	watching bruce all mighty at home
surprise	tweets	hey twitter  hows it going? let us know how your day is going
joy	tweets	@rhettmatic happy birthday
joy	tweets	@amnitaleandra Ow. Okay.  It's good you're better now.
joy	tweets	Is relaxing in bed for a while before I go to sleep. It was nice to get out of my house for a while tonight
joy	tweets	@tyleigh Thanks! Hope you find a job soon!...OH, almost forgot: I landed a role in an indie flick!  My first audition ever lol.
joy	tweets	fun night tonight, and my house looks so purrrty. Until tomorrow when the kids come home
joy	tweets	Good morning to another too late sleeper @DesignsbyValeri.  One of my excellent designers is Valerie (see @BooneWallbeds) picture
joy	tweets	@djunity thanks!
surprise	tweets	If there is one thing the Internet has taught me, is that if I get enough people to listen to me I get to be on The colbert report.  #USA
joy	tweets	@trent_reznor Trent don't get mad at me but I keep thinking you're pretending to be engaged for some reason
joy	tweets	a night alone with my piano...and a pro tools session... ill take that ANYTIME.
joy	tweets	is going to watch the two davids. yey
joy	tweets	@johndb10 LOLOL.. i think it's funny that about 190 people think you're lieing about being &quot;the REAL john barrowman&quot;
joy	tweets	Today is another good day for some less extreme experiences... Anyone a fan of #24? I'm watching season 4 now
joy	tweets	@amedawg18 Haha, that's great. Yeah, Zachary Quinto as Spock is really awesome indeed!!!
joy	tweets	Romantic evening in with papa murphys and &quot;battle BC&quot; from the history channel
joy	tweets	YAY! My temperature went down!  I can have dinner with the family tonight.
joy	tweets	@trippingtracy if there's a pow wow in the chicago area, definitely check it out, they're so fun! Happy Mother's Day
joy	tweets	@thylady yay! welcome to the etsy-seller world
joy	tweets	@HockeyTShirt Folks thought it was hilarious when I told them the story, and then they saw the shirt I wore tonight.  Laughter all night.
joy	tweets	@anna_007 Don't worry, they'll get bored of it! Just hang in there and don't give in!
joy	tweets	@sunmee hope the studyin went well
joy	tweets	Is finally home, fed and ready to go to bed and its only 2:45am.  That's gotta be a record
joy	tweets	Hopes to find more mates that are on this thing
surprise	tweets	second song is coming along nicley
joy	tweets	@lexxie_couper  I've heard that. 2 of my sons have seen it and one wants to see it again. I can't wait to get there
joy	tweets	@shaki_sm I'll have a look. Do you live in the centre of Glasgow? I was born on Bellshill &amp; grew up in Bothwell. I miss Tunnocks pies
joy	tweets	@scottiejen knackered! been awake since 5 as couldn't sleep! just started work now. coffee and toast sounds awesome  chris has been busy!
joy	tweets	In bed after a good last saturday in ec. I'm gonna miss this place but can't wait til summer
joy	tweets	@RetroRewind hey dave im just up in the UK and first thing i done was put RR on  could u play ill be there new kids on the block thanks
joy	tweets	Seriously though. Amazing night.
joy	tweets	@AmyQcoocachoo THANK YYYYYYYYYOOOOOOOOOOUUUUU!
joy	tweets	@cookiedorksx3 Me too,but i'm goitn to go to shower!And cleanin' up my room and later eat somethin'
joy	tweets	@celia_brads i've finished  lol
joy	tweets	I'm calling your room-mate!!!
joy	tweets	@tommcfly AHHHHHHH!!!!! its my 16th birthday  And i cant belive i found out im seeing yous tonight  Best present everr!!! &lt;333333333
joy	tweets	o, and happy mothers day
surprise	tweets	I quite enjoy this Lady Gaga person. She's of Italian heritage, apparently.  ? http://blip.fm/~5z3co
surprise	tweets	@XKirstyxo Really? A good distraction now. I'll check it right. now.
joy	tweets	Morning everybody
surprise	tweets	@ALLyannaaa oh thas cool  you know, I only kinda knew bouts you cuz of Ericson haha when you guys were together x)
joy	tweets	@BrendaSimons do i wanna kno wat u mean by more than fine? Lol now i'm curious lol. I may have money by then  tis good too.
joy	tweets	@NickMLTM  oh man that sucks hardcore! haha good luck finishing up recording
joy	tweets	Morning tweeps  Looking forward to a relaxing Sunday. Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there!!
joy	tweets	just woke up...for  once I managed to sleep in!! going out for lunch later then back to essay
joy	tweets	Done...now another gem of a day in Cape Town
joy	tweets	@steveplunkett  Hey, I need a car too. I'll dm you my address.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wp8s - My ear hurts, and THIS is my medicine. GUM
joy	tweets	goodnight and good bye to all of you, hope you have the best of dreams
joy	tweets	Now comes the fun part  Because you can find only a few offers per country or you live outside US, your changes can be quite tiny.
joy	tweets	partied w/ @jboosf @_SML, elitecamp, rock steady crew + the ladies (wow), and of course crazy legs - holla! lmao - sober. totally sober
joy	tweets	watched sex &amp; the city season 1 &amp; drank a little wine w/ my date...just ended w/ a goodnight kiss. i could get used 2 this  night night!
joy	tweets	SWAY SWAY BABY zommgg love it  need more screamo tho boys
joy	tweets	just finished tlking to laura 2 hours and 7 minutes lol... going to sleep. night ppl
joy	tweets	finally gone to the beach, yeaaaah!
joy	tweets	@joywilder That's a popular one! (cccd)  Thx for replying
joy	tweets	@chokewho Nah, rolled with Jason Manly, who is a talented BJJ ace who mauls me any way...   Jake is looking great, can't wait to fight.
joy	tweets	@knatchwa Buenos Dias! How very sweet, thank you
joy	tweets	i'm lookin for email to this man  i have his photo -Spray Painting in Wroclaw(Poland) by Kosmo http://bit.ly/EOvVN
joy	tweets	&quot;suprised&quot; mom with a cake and a present, because it's mother's day!  dad had bought flowers. : &gt;
joy	tweets	What a fantastic full-on weekend!  Going to finish on a high, with a cheeky chilli thai fried rice &amp; a few glasses of red
joy	tweets	Aiden KNIVES out May 12th www.myspace.com/aiden. excited!!!!!
joy	tweets	eating truffles  yum!
joy	tweets	Swords make everyone sexy.  Oh, Harold.
joy	tweets	Installed NetGear 802.11n (draft) router today, throughput has definately increased
surprise	tweets	Sexxxy tiiiiiimmmmmmeee!...whatever that means.
joy	tweets	@LeslieLang It will be an Adventure!  Have FUN with your 5 yr old and 8 mo old! (You're brave.)    Hope you have a great time!
joy	tweets	@KerriAnson  My day was good!  Spent the day catching up on sleep, relaxing.. kind of a lazy day! hehe. oooo shopping! How did you resist?
joy	tweets	last leg of my travels today. totally exhausted, but thank goodness &quot;Ed&quot; is keeping me company
joy	tweets	sunday is runday- outta bed and onto the road
joy	tweets	@Buffalokid Thanks for the feedback. Surreal life, surreal oils
joy	tweets	@MusicalChilly Thank you and u too lady!!!!
joy	tweets	@lulliecarole that was delicious! lets have a walk sometimes with you and your hubby.. and others! me misses you
surprise	tweets	@hanastephenson I'm good! thx.  and how are u? what are u doing?
joy	tweets	Last week I had 516 hits on my guinea pig pictures on webshots! And I didn't even promote them! Way to go
joy	tweets	#SanctuarySunday @nirroca yay for #Sanctuary, I may watch Requiem after breakfast!
joy	tweets	@calikara22 @darthamandar @trippplesweet grats to aaron and christine
joy	tweets	@burbankhays ohhh I remember when you gave your dad a shoutout at the mcr at MSG show last year. that was so sweet
surprise	tweets	Wow - the dude said I was better than Bobbi Lewis.. never heard the guy - but I take that as a compliment  (just read the BL web site)
joy	tweets	is wishing everyone a blessed &amp; beautiful Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	@MariahCarey &quot;VISION OF LOVE&quot; Play now &quot;i had the vision of luv n it was aaaaaoOUoOuoOUU that u..turn out..toOoo&quot; Mariah this ur part
joy	tweets	BWAHAHAHAHA! Shut the fuck up... @BarryManilow is TOTES following me right now! Who made the account? Made me giggle like a school girl!
joy	tweets	Twas a good show. I even liked Ciara's last song.   Time for me to go to bed. G'night!
joy	tweets	@RetroRewind You're a good friend Dave.. we can wait!! Hope we dont have to wait too long though
surprise	tweets	@krazyfrog I got me to watch it.  Recommend some other kickass shows too. Phast!
joy	tweets	@paulbay1028 Bit of a lie -in. Eaten all the bread.  It's way too good to giveaway.
joy	tweets	@snowded nice one
joy	tweets	@angelistic u understand now why i keep telling u MAKE A TWITTER app that understand MY NEED
joy	tweets	Does anyone still play N64 anymore? or Super Nintendo? Weren't those days the best? haha. So many flashbacks!
joy	tweets	Day dreaming of Fuzzball and SNL  http://fuzz-ball.com/twitter
surprise	tweets	@andmegansaid &lt;&lt;&lt; Just like in HIMYM
joy	tweets	@firedwarftj i was right about the wave off
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day mom!  I love you!
surprise	tweets	@kenma321 of course!  i love 24 hr donut shops! he he -yours truly -
joy	tweets	@SelenaGomez selena's mom congratulations' have a nice day
joy	tweets	He brings SOOO much joy!! Show it!!  great song! ? http://blip.fm/~5z3oq
surprise	tweets	Just saw Star Trek with the boo.. Now off to bed! Never again will I go to a Vallejo theater. hAppy mOthErs dAy to all!! I love my mommy
joy	tweets	Home at last 1 more day till my weekend begins!!
joy	tweets	@ReeceReece Kind of, good job though.  I know no better.  I might see you this Friday w/ Arbie.
joy	tweets	feels at home to be back at church
joy	tweets	had a great time talkin with Mike tonight for three hrs.
joy	tweets	@pcsketch I am actually wanting to buy a bus one day &amp; turn it into a motor home. Imagine a whopping big BlokesLib logo on it
joy	tweets	The most epic weekend I've had in atleast a year. Night cap with @aaron_matthes and @trumpy03. 2 hours of sleep in 3 days! Goodnight
joy	tweets	@soulsweetness I will, n btw happy mothers day sissy
surprise	tweets	@SummerSeaweeds Wow that's very Buddhist o_O HOORAY JEWS
joy	tweets	08.05.09 partying at the Pineforest  http://tinyurl.com/ojugsb
surprise	tweets	thursday night was amazing taylor swift gave me one of her braclets
joy	tweets	Using my old phone!  gosh! I miss this phone!
joy	tweets	@ishaNikki congratss to them
surprise	tweets	@leona_y time really flies my frd..how's you love-hunting mission going? abt time to bring the sexy &quot;yu yung&quot; jacket out
joy	tweets	@kenakasoulstar thank you.
joy	tweets	Good morning World   This will be another wonderfull day, starting with breakfst with champions...  my kids ofcourse
surprise	tweets	Hella wow .  no doubt .
joy	tweets	i just realized im off tomorrow. goin to the beach! who wana come?
joy	tweets	here we go.. captain says &quot;shut it down&quot; we are on our way  ? http://blip.fm/~5z3p8
joy	tweets	12 more days until CA!! i get to see my paniniii
joy	tweets	@QuiMo haha Mon...Do you really want me too send it?
joy	tweets	@heycassadee SUPER EXCITED. JUST BOUGHT MY TIX TO SEE HEY MONDAY ON 6/20. AGAIN.  ~SVETLANA J. DENVER,CO
joy	tweets	Going to get some strawberries for the champagne tonight!
joy	tweets	@lmatechnologies Gotcha ! Let's meet up @ The Twitt Cafe
surprise	tweets	@Yorksville ...Yawn is it that time already!
joy	tweets	@MrHollaOut hahah  u know this mannnnnn trust me ima  freak and  proud of  it
joy	tweets	Off to Woolsery this morning to (hopefully) see North Molton U16 clinch the North Devon League title. Lovely day for it
joy	tweets	is having a lazy sunday
joy	tweets	could do with some bacon and egss. mm
joy	tweets	You know you're up too late when the TCU nightly scan starts! Oh well, I graduated today
joy	tweets	had cold rock, choc mint+bubblegum+cookie+flake+nerds= YUM!!!! XD .  had a fun day.
joy	tweets	Now, lets do funkey stuff, talking with magento, through xmlrpc with codeignite and output with amf (Zend) to flash
surprise	tweets	@MariSmith last week @crozfromoz and I interviewed @waynemansfield and we told him you are the FB queen! Glad to see you both connected
joy	tweets	Happy mother's day and to the god mother's and step mother's too....
joy	tweets	the sun is waking me up. what a beautiful day
joy	tweets	@madberry TestFest was weer een groot succes
joy	tweets	@rebeccao372 Thats ok  Yeah I had a good night thanks. Glad you did too. Hope you enjoy your BBQ
joy	tweets	@marafromci its bout smoking weed
surprise	tweets	@slessard thank u, thank u, thank u for everything this weekend!! U guys are AMAZING. I'll see u again at alpine! Thx for chattin w us 2!
joy	tweets	@LesleyER Its goin good takin it easy ths weekend  Im preparing for the big events comin up for me U girls INSPIRE me 2 do great things!!
joy	tweets	@Rajkumari22 o snapppp look who i found on twitter lollll
joy	tweets	@adnamay nite nite bday girl  have fun at concert
joy	tweets	@kgopal Ah! Thank you!
joy	tweets	@tim_buckley Good morning from sunny London...sounds like an oxymoron but happens to be true of today  Hurrah!
joy	tweets	@jonathanrknight so great to hear from u again today! U r the best! Cannot wait to see u on the cruise!!! &lt;3 Cindy with the sign
joy	tweets	@cactopus - You too, thanks for completing  Calvin Appreciated
surprise	tweets	I somehow miss you.
joy	tweets	@jodiontheweb Isn't that hilarious? Hope you saw the Crosby is a douche shirt I picked up and wore bc of it.
joy	tweets	thnkn bout yesterday..best day ever!&amp; 2day Virtus vs Treviso at da futurshow..hard game,gotta win! FORZA RAGAZZI!!!
joy	tweets	@thebirchtree i'll try sort that fabric out for you today...been a busy bee!
joy	tweets	@henryandfriends thank for Thinking of us and caring
joy	tweets	@cookiemonster82 ohhh yea it is from the same film  and this one had been a fave for a longgggg time... any1 for humma humma?
joy	tweets	trying this out with my sweet lil iPod... I am totally nerding out. and... totally ok with it
joy	tweets	As kids, this is how we attempted to dance http://digg.com/u12xAo No idea to what the words mean,but the moves are so cool!
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers!!
joy	tweets	had fun at her b-day celebration.
surprise	tweets	surprisingly liked Star Trek (contrary to the theory that star wars fans are anti trekkies)
joy	tweets	Ordering pizzas, watching Diggnation, trying out Tweetdeck. All is good
joy	tweets	home! tonight was so much fun! goodnight twitterbugs!
joy	tweets	@netmogul actually, i play keyboards for pohaku lol. we played a 12st bday earlier and now i'm spinning at the shack
joy	tweets	I had fun at Daisy's Mexican Fiesta .
joy	tweets	@natzini 16lbs is still a huge achievement though
joy	tweets	@ArchNiaLeitl Hello my friend...you found me on GBW? How are you doing? Glad to see you twitter but I have to learn German
joy	tweets	wooh! 100th tweet  i have no life xD
surprise	tweets	@Ryan_Robert ha that was ages ago!  youre in LA right? the weather is much better there...
joy	tweets	i find John Mayer's tweets mighty entertaining for a hearty laugh...so thanks John
joy	tweets	@irishprincess41 it was great to meet ya katie...awesome shows for sure!! Safe travels home.
joy	tweets	@Jason_Manford Awww thats such a lovely thing for u to say to me  are u doing any in manchester? x
joy	tweets	can't sleep... Thinking of holidays
joy	tweets	Fab sunny day
joy	tweets	Celebrated Mother's Day with the best lamb roast lunch followed by a box of Cadbury's shared around the table. It was a wonderful day
joy	tweets	@gulpanag watching dor on utv movies again great performance
joy	tweets	@calypsominerals haha well, kinda! I'm Mommy to my lil' pom-chi  hehe  thank you! ;)
joy	tweets	I'm sooo hyper! And I don't even know why! Hahahahaha!
joy	tweets	@jillieface lol very much appreciated!!!  so excited!!!
joy	tweets	Sex on the beach, cosmo, kamikaze, captain america, ahhh fun night. Still not over.
joy	tweets	@RussellBfan90 ah its getting there  still a fair bit to go, but it's coming together fairly well! aw  where are you from?
surprise	tweets	@dagadong  do you remember them all.... do not take that as a challenge to!
joy	tweets	@ChrisAxe Thank you. Keep it down, there's a good lad.
surprise	tweets	@QuiMo You know I love me some Jordie...but that is not the best version of CG, admit it....lol...
surprise	tweets	wonderful Gerrard scores 2 and we're at the top of the league for the moment.. Hopefully City helps us today..
surprise	tweets	@torilovesbradie aww bradie loves perth  I love the ad at the top of his page too lol xx
joy	tweets	@RetroRewind Joe's version is pretty but it's a sleeper.  Shouldn't be played at 1am.
joy	tweets	watching freo on a sunday arvo is a good hobby
joy	tweets	liking my fake tan orange colour
joy	tweets	is updating you LIVE from Benihana of Tokyo in Waikiki  Happy Birthday Mark!!!
joy	tweets	Chillin' following some cool people!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wppn - This is how wild at down and derby... TRNDS3TRS
joy	tweets	sup guys, just downloaded tweetdeck, gettin a move on right now : D tweet me some nice clothes sits or summat  x
joy	tweets	Had a good time at Flap-a-taco with @daveyboyonline, @LadyLaurali, and @CesYeuxBleus
joy	tweets	@loris_sl happy sunday to you to
surprise	tweets	off to my cousins confirmation + confirmation party
joy	tweets	What Darren on Linkedin? YES!   Just say your a twitter friend I NEVER IDK people! http://www.linkedin.com/in/darrenmonroe
joy	tweets	@biomedwiz miss u too. I'm still at a club...u know...west coast shit!
joy	tweets	@jobondi Awsome thanks Jo...Can't wait for her to be on  xx
joy	tweets	Ps... I got Ben Button today... completes my Best Picture noms....got all 5 now. It was a GREAT year!!
joy	tweets	alkaline trio was sweet, saves the day sucked.  but i had a great time anyways.  it was awesome seeing everybody and hangin out
surprise	tweets	@trixchasin suh-weet! perfect timing.
joy	tweets	'Allo there twitter  how are we today?
joy	tweets	mozart requiem tonight
joy	tweets	@Beati3 moving from rod to justin, even persuaded sons to join me
joy	tweets	@LunarLife hes definitely my fav host ever!  Can't wait to watch the rest tomorrow!!
joy	tweets	Ah, lets start working! Livingroom here I come
joy	tweets	Wow, such a crazy night of ever changing emotions! I liked it tho
surprise	tweets	@alannahclaire my your rather random.
joy	tweets	For those of us who's hearts break a little more this time of year know that you are loved and next week is a new week.
joy	tweets	Woah!! Awesome show!! Glad to be back at the hotel, though.. Nightie night and Happy Mother's Day to all you mommy's!!
joy	tweets	time always seems to fly when im with wade, its weird; but i like it... a lot!
joy	tweets	you are acting like 5 year olds   @player112345 @Carole09
joy	tweets	hey hey hey!  lol.
joy	tweets	Enjoy your hols  xxx
joy	tweets	Just got back from Apple Store in Robina. Managed to get a replacement iPhone because it couldn't access the web properly. So shiny
joy	tweets	Well off 2 bed...cant wait 2 party 4 Mother's Day in like 14 hours or so
surprise	tweets	@chichic Charlie Brown  What are you doing today? What time is it??
joy	tweets	Last night went really well. Got some cracking shots
joy	tweets	@sooj899 LOL  I know what ya mean. Watching everyone else act a fool is much better the  not remembering acting a fool yourself
joy	tweets	@amanga46    WOW!  That is so awesome, Andre!   It will be great, I know!  Can't wait.   And you dad's aren't so bad either!
joy	tweets	@eashmore like, for reals this time guys. Ha. G'night. &amp; happy birthday kid
disgust	tweets	today was boring...harry potter ftw
joy	tweets	i'm doin my tweets on my phone so i have on clue how to reply to anyone. but thank u fiercemichi, as soon as i can i'll check it out.
joy	tweets	okay.. so i &quot;thought&quot; i was getting sick... but NOPE!!!  HAHAHA PHEW! (sry mike lol - hope you get better soon!)
joy	tweets	&lt;&lt; Finaly Back to home..
joy	tweets	I had the best weekend ever
joy	tweets	Morning all its beautiful out already, glorious sunshine. Wash and vacum car Done, fill with petrol Done, bbq stuff buy Done.
joy	tweets	@TerriLPN Thanks, Terri!  I am so excited to pick Parker up on Monday.   I hope he gets along with David! #pixiebob
joy	tweets	Gooooooood morning, campers!  And happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	Lol @ me and @kittykatmakeup whispering so we don't get in trouble and being almost 30! Feels great to be home feeling like kids
joy	tweets	@BB517 sounds like a plan.....yea excited now
surprise	tweets	@alyssa905 Ooh, there you are, haha. Thanks, posted it!
joy	tweets	morning!  well excited dancing down the park todayyy! should be good!  wooo c'mon venue!  xx
joy	tweets	this is my movie weekend!! i've watched 5 movies so far
surprise	tweets	MY UNCLE BRUCE MORROW WAS JUST ON THE NEWS!
joy	tweets	@millportonian Don't worry. You'll be 38 soon
joy	tweets	Last library day before Doomsday. Urgh. Was nice to wake up with my J-bum though. He's still sleeping now. Cute
joy	tweets	got a new dog
joy	tweets	@pantone801 heh, thats the same theme I used on http://leetbix.net
joy	tweets	what a beautiful morning! nice to be out
joy	tweets	Watching Everything Is Illuminated  and dreaaaming&lt;3
joy	tweets	Gorgeous day! Off to Hash around Waterley Bottom - wonderful name for a village! Quiz Mistressing at the Porto this evening
joy	tweets	@demiswissfan yer  i hope the competition doesnt end before i post my video! lol but there are some really good singers who entered.....
joy	tweets	@amalinaaa You said your getting McFlys live album 2morrow, whats it called?  xx
joy	tweets	@ankita_gaba evrytime i listen to the name of tat plce i am reminded of Mojojojo from dexter's lab
joy	tweets	Just Decorated Moms Room While She Was Asleep For Mothers Day  She'll Wake Up To A Banner And Balloons! Woo!
joy	tweets	@megspptc I don't remember cause I was watching so many on youtube... LOL will get back to you
joy	tweets	Happy mother's day everyone!
joy	tweets	@jedwhite Err yeah...me too...can we sue ?
joy	tweets	@AhmNoHere Thanks! Didn't watch the movie.Wasn't able to decide. :-/ Hope you had a great time with your friends!
joy	tweets	@dhanji meet @Marawitch - she is the Zombie expert i believe..
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Daaay!!
joy	tweets	watered the tomato plants, pepper plants and lettuce, feeling all homely! off out with Freddie for a fun-packed day
joy	tweets	@RobPattinson444 thank you for accepting my request!! must take care of my little girl, maybe i write back later
joy	tweets	who's for a boiled egg with soldiers?
joy	tweets	@BeanJuce thanks, feeling good and off to New Forest later
joy	tweets	@FlissTee I think the very late night on Friday just hit me  off to town to meet a friend soon for ice cream and coffee
joy	tweets	looked up weather for greece this weekend....80 and sunny OMGZ
surprise	tweets	work was splendid
surprise	tweets	is listening to music. really happy about !librefm #audacious combination  here's my profile http://is.gd/yopo
joy	tweets	today i salute all mothers and honour the feminine....and now its time for a beer
joy	tweets	@BB517 Hey girl, yeah I did..thanks a bunch!! I haven't started downloading them yet...I totally owe you.
joy	tweets	@markii187 Eeee! Hiya!  Haven't spoken to you in ages! How you doing? *enormous hug*
joy	tweets	@LittlePinkStone I'm not either. We should have went out *snicker* Although I am enjoying listening to RR and my beer
joy	tweets	@commonsense4 Thanks! I appreciate it  I know my unsubscribe list will grow tomorrow LOL
joy	tweets	@TeeBiscuit - crazy fun! You make that man be nice!  Sri Lanka is a spiritual place, yes?
joy	tweets	ok.. BEST SNL episode i've seen in a hot minute. Justin is wonderful and Ciara has muscles..the end. G'nitey, tweet tweets!
joy	tweets	@get2knowpro oh, left off the  smiley face so you knew I was kidding.
joy	tweets	just got home from work.... and is chugging down a big bottle of apple juice.
joy	tweets	Is on her way home  aloha and good night everyone!
surprise	tweets	had the best mother's day! breakfast, shopping and lunch, drinks, chocolate galore!
joy	tweets	@lazycat jass warn me b4 u go to nxt war...i am there to have fun...
joy	tweets	Wow! That's what I say about star trek.  very cool.
surprise	tweets	Having dinner with my grandma since I couldn't be with my mum.
joy	tweets	@kyleterrell Yeah I'm kinda glad I did stay home
joy	tweets	@johncmayer &quot;arrest her&quot; or, anything ending in -est that can be done to her.
joy	tweets	This is Really Cool put in a topic and its a twitter show...If your a tweeter twittering twit u got to luv this http://bit.ly/a0nw
joy	tweets	@Courageous_one Very much so.  Setting some goals for the next couple of months in preparation
joy	tweets	Nine o'clock on a Sunday morning - Outside, sat around the table enjoying the early rays of sun, reading Twitter article in Sunday Times
joy	tweets	@lauriepercival it was a great wedding! the band was awesome (they played a ton of great 80's songs) as was the food!
joy	tweets	@stevelensink thanks stephen, appreciate it
joy	tweets	After the sketchy moments at A mtn, the friends and I moved up the trail and sat at the end of the road, just talking and being silly
joy	tweets	@krystynchong that's part of what I've been working on...use the AppStore on the phone  - there's a whole other piece of the puzzle
joy	tweets	Having dinner at Jiuliani's with family YUM!!!
surprise	tweets	@LoN_Colossus Lol, cheers 'mate'. Yeah it went well thanks
joy	tweets	@aNDeeDrummer yeah   when he goes there he always brings us these things. + he just let me last something called &quot;bird milk&quot; and it
joy	tweets	but worth it i spose
surprise	tweets	jfc, it needs to be the 23rd. i will have been graduated, and i ended up getting AWESOME hook-ups for FTSK and Rocket. so excited!
joy	tweets	Oowweee!!! China club wuz poppin!!! Lipstic n Pumps were in full effect!
joy	tweets	Tonight was fun
joy	tweets	@johncmayer maybe she's funny like a jester
joy	tweets	Playing &quot;The Simpsons Game&quot; for Nitentdo DS Light *_*
surprise	tweets	Mmmm, shower.
joy	tweets	I'm sure all you people with hangovers will be glad to know I'm hangover free  @fjkeogh hope you're not too fragile this morning!
joy	tweets	happy mothers day
joy	tweets	@typezero3 Hehe...until it comes back, your FB friends get a Twitter respite huh? JK!
surprise	tweets	Happy Mothers Day. Havent got mom a present yet? Print off an Amazon Gift Card for her!  http://snipurl.com/hq0n1
joy	tweets	@djcmc carls jr sounds hella good, you should bring me some  http://myloc.me/G3o
joy	tweets	@JamFactory Andy of Crazy Label has found me a Vimto droplet! Yay!
surprise	tweets	@MelanieFinance thanks, I found it already
joy	tweets	Watching Nemecek go on her computer, fun!  Lol I keed!  Norms was fun
joy	tweets	@MaxizPad hahaha! Guess you will have to reinforce your skates, haha... Remember who u r my friend, our semi-God with a gluten intolence
joy	tweets	@divadivachrissy lol wat u making me come all da way overr there for?v
joy	tweets	@MA12CUS - You can do yiiiit!  Night
joy	tweets	had an awesome day at the zoo yes2dy!!!!! now gettin ready 4 church  yay!!!
joy	tweets	@Ivy_Blue - the chauffeur from &quot;Some Kind of Wonderful&quot; was my idea of a perfect woman
joy	tweets	OK YALL ITS TIME FOR ME TO GO TO MY ROOM &amp; CUDDLE WIT SASHA LOL SEE YALL LATER ALLIGATORS! HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO DA MOMS &amp; MOMS 2 BE
joy	tweets	@Jennettemccurdy http://twitpic.com/4v0vr - cool! you and your mother have awesome hair styles,! Wish her a happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	@ForsakenDAemon Hooray!
joy	tweets	and she was all like &quot;dude. I care about you.&quot; and it made me smile  yea that teaches me not to drive on E, lol
surprise	tweets	@niksterz  Get Up, You are NOT old!  What did you do?! =O
joy	tweets	@janice7092001  I know  lol . I'll grin and bear it
joy	tweets	totally addicted to xbox carcassonne.  i also really love tomb raider legend.  and still badly NEED bolt.
joy	tweets	I'll get my new laptop in 10 more days! Excited! It is Dell Inspiron - core2duo 2.0GHz - 4GB DDR2 - 250GB hdd - 15.6 inches screen
joy	tweets	@lostintheforest thanks!  Remember the SAE for the we make stuff too
surprise	tweets	To Lisa: Yes I know who ur talking about and yes he is an ass. Dont let him get to ya...you have a great thing going with this chris
joy	tweets	@lrpw1302 hey ty for tip, wifi networking is one if my many talents  I'll get on it when I can be bothered LOL
joy	tweets	Fantastic weekend - hairdressers, stylish luncheons &amp; a Fabulous girlie night with wine, cheeses &amp; chocolates...And dancing till morning
surprise	tweets	@sanjana_58 great.. My best wishes for great future of the site..
joy	tweets	@missxtatti Thanks for adding me
joy	tweets	@racemode lol.. who know the president could be a comedian?
surprise	tweets	Happy Mums Day This is Nelly's shout out   http://skitch.com/t/tac
joy	tweets	@JPMizDELiCiOUS Good to hear..!
joy	tweets	@fashion_retweet I do my best - that's why running skirts are on the scene as well
joy	tweets	@tommmlives i think you should follow me. as i only have on follower. stalk me please
joy	tweets	@eckastatic sure I would like some cream right now
surprise	tweets	@AubreyODay wut u want a shot of ma?
joy	tweets	@MichelleZen i knew that, jus givin u a hard time hehe
joy	tweets	@Suzyqbee10 that'd be awesome!!! I don't think i've ever been blogged about!!!
joy	tweets	Yay me! I did good on my com final  I needa step up next semester forsure tho. No more distractions.
joy	tweets	@TheRealIngrosso is nto milk deffo!
joy	tweets	I am listening to the music of Super Juniors of Korea. I so like the way they sing and dance. I hope someday i can meet them.
joy	tweets	catching up on my reading... twitter n BF break
joy	tweets	@augustine25 TY my friend. Yes ur right.... a daughter is a daughter forever.
surprise	tweets	@Kirsty_H_99 LOL - Hiya - alls good  Ben has a superb day yesterday by the looks of it - well chuffed
joy	tweets	@dotmanish dude, i pestered army personnel at Mumbai airport to let me hold it so much that they had to *request* me to leave
joy	tweets	white-water rafting in the tripics
joy	tweets	Wow, Hugh Jackman TOTALLY bulked up for Wolverine. So so movie...but helloooo nurse! He's dreeaamy  Yup, my crushed spirit is on the mend.
joy	tweets	@fuzzyorange i thought people only went to hounslow when they'd gone the wrong way, didn't know there was anything there
joy	tweets	I will not be late.  I will not be late.  I will not be late.
joy	tweets	uploaded a new song to the Tellmetwice myspace today by DOLLAROSA &gt;&gt; please come listen  http://bit.ly/JAE1v
joy	tweets	@xCarCrashHearts ironclad determination?
joy	tweets	is seventeen today  and is trekking from chorleywood to see @dannymcfly @tommcfly @dougiemcfly and @mcflyharry in cambridge  &lt;3
joy	tweets	Beer pong and dubstep. Good nite
joy	tweets	@demiswissfan thanks  lyxxx
joy	tweets	#SanctuarySunday @Fredto it's our mission to make #Sanctuary a trending topic for the day, lots of people on board for it...join in
joy	tweets	@markman641 HAPPY MOTHERS DAY MARK
joy	tweets	@LindaLocke My daughter went to a Bday party today caled, &quot;Grace&quot; of Cakes...the little girl is named Grace &amp; they made cupcakes!
joy	tweets	@rossianson invite sent   You can now invite more collabs too, pass the word around
joy	tweets	@AubreyODay Just got kicked out the club, bout to try to get into another, Lmao! Shot of Patron on you?! Haha.
joy	tweets	@JessMcFlyxxx that would be an idea  haha xx
joy	tweets	kellie: Its a major problem okay. alex: what is? Kellie: hahahahahahahaa your face
joy	tweets	@drjoesDIYhealth weekend is going great  Yours?
joy	tweets	Yaaaaaaay, bday!
joy	tweets	@scattyjan All the best with the Cup Final today. Have fun
joy	tweets	Happy Mommy's  Day to all you moms
joy	tweets	yay  my 'only on sundays' maid came!! the house will be clean again!!!
surprise	tweets	@themishi Wanna come to Mifune tomorrow? Impromptu #Tweetup , 11am
joy	tweets	wah....American Chocolate Cheese Cake for my chweet mummy ! muaxxx
joy	tweets	Sitting down for a nice English breakfast. The one meal they do right
joy	tweets	@xsub1 Was at Ruby Skye last night as well! Superb set by Steve. The last hour was loaded with Thrillseekers material old and new
joy	tweets	@jeninamaree has just voted for you. hope you win!
joy	tweets	Downtown was fun tonight  The walk back to the car was rediculous lol
joy	tweets	@light_bikes sounds good to me  hahaha
joy	tweets	@maxcarver Hey im a fan from New Zealand. Loving the show even tho we are soooo behind in the episodes! haha. Keep up the good work
joy	tweets	@YvetteCYL Awwww so sweet of him.
joy	tweets	Good night everyone...... Time to go mimmiz......
joy	tweets	Ok I am going to sleep for real now good night twitter land
joy	tweets	@Vocalyz Hi  Im Better... Drinking Hot Tea With honey ^^ ... Thanks... Take Care Plis
joy	tweets	This weekend has been probably the best and there is still another day to go!!
joy	tweets	@hilaryjp  I've already done my washing, I have a spring in my step this morning
joy	tweets	@TheFuzzyBlueOne me? A doctor? *laughs* oh, no, no, no. I was @dr_crane's patient at Arkham Aslyum, but now I work for him
joy	tweets	Happy sunday, beautiful day in London... off to meet Chergo for breakfast  xx
surprise	tweets	It's the final count down to bigger hair people   ? http://blip.fm/~5z4uq
joy	tweets	@roe4ever1 Happy Mother's Day ~ Did you watch SNL?  If not U missed a hoot with Jimmy Fallon
joy	tweets	aaauuuggghhh! in n out, check! mcdonald's, check! haha, next is hot cheetos!
joy	tweets	OMG 17 again... I'm so buying that on DVD   Yeahness for another good movie  Also thanks to my movie buddies :]
joy	tweets	good mornig to everone... it's a great morning ...in the evening i play in the theatre in lord of the flies. it's so much fun!
surprise	tweets	Pizza arrived but driver didn't have change for a $50, guess thats why they deliver Pizza, too stupid to give change. Still got Pizza
joy	tweets	@bryybryyy is a lumberjack  http://twitpic.com/4wqe8
surprise	tweets	I am in a middle of a industrial estate in pirate ffancy dress,ready to do a 7 mile walk
surprise	tweets	@talkaboutluck oh haha thanks again! that's something new!
surprise	tweets	@ScylisSynaptic NO WAY MAN! i like 21 year olds
joy	tweets	One gear, baby!!!
joy	tweets	Goodnight twitterworld. I'll tweet y'all later.  Goodnight, J.
joy	tweets	@typezero3 thanks! Slooooow hehe but I'm stoked  hope you're having a good weekend!
joy	tweets	@Rove1974 looking forward to the show tonight. Can't wait for ol mate @DHughsey to
joy	tweets	wow! party! my new life! it is awesome! no more girlfriends they just create tons of drama! babes at a party is the way to go!  just w ...
surprise	tweets	Watchin' JONAS
joy	tweets	Justin Timberlake totally rocked SNL tonight. Ooh, and Happy Mother's Day, another Hallmark mkting tool.
joy	tweets	@Albz86  oh man i wanna be in the bay asap! Thank you   Have a great day!
joy	tweets	@iamsemmi Im Drinking Right Now  Hot Tea and Honey!... Take care u too
joy	tweets	@NaiZhao the pictures tells me me that u were surrounded by adorable children!  hehe
surprise	tweets	@Geetwity (RE:&quot;your joint w/ @Traxamillion408 is crazy!!&quot;) Thx    Hey Trax heard a 49er rear ended you??
joy	tweets	@trswift yep, meeeee  I'm awesome hahahha
joy	tweets	@LadyLogan Thats awesome!!  Good idea!!
joy	tweets	@xanister I'm glad you liked it though
joy	tweets	@JessMcFlyxxx yeaahh; punch her!  haha. xx
surprise	tweets	@RastaBeanZ yes sir i sure did.
surprise	tweets	googled mothers day, PHEW, US &amp; UK have different dates! Learn something new every day
joy	tweets	Getting ready for our annual old boys hockey competition  let's bring down the students!
surprise	tweets	wow this morning 8.15 hrs ding dong breakfastservice, was a surprise of Marjoleine, Guido and Dirk for mothersday.Mother hapy, father too
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wqfv - dark berry mocha frapp.. heaven.. TRY IT EVERYONE!!  here.. let me pass it to you
disgust	tweets	Prom is so over rated!! Irritated... Going to bed goodnight
joy	tweets	time to bed now!!
surprise	tweets	@mwakeham oh ok cool will get back to you on that
joy	tweets	@VeritasUnae Ahh that's fun  I had work last night, a party after, went to the movies today to see Wolverine. Was a good weekend
joy	tweets	listenin do da beach girl5 on itunes
joy	tweets	@jasonperryrock Is you cat clean again?  Hope so ;) Xx
joy	tweets	@baggers haha yeah it was
joy	tweets	@XKookie03 whyyyy hellloooo! Thx 4 checkin up on me  how r things? http://myloc.me/G4p
joy	tweets	@sageeb finally -- someone recognizes my genius
disgust	tweets	1:36 AM screw it im going to bed... one love
joy	tweets	too much good food on this Mother's Day. not that i'm complaining! Seafood, durian puffs and macarons! yum!
joy	tweets	@Pimplepopper: Where did you get a copy? I wanna watch that also.
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERSDAY TO ALL MOTHERS!!!!...and to mine  I LOVE YOUUUUUU
joy	tweets	@ohaiijess it would be cool if they had people make videos of themselves miming the song and make one big video  so EVERYONE can be in it.
joy	tweets	@annadwan90 excellent good to see
joy	tweets	@johncmayer what about name Jana? there you've got lots of options..
joy	tweets	2am feedings for the baby are fun when he is all smiles and coos
joy	tweets	Happy Christmas! No wait... What is it again happy M...........easels day. No but seriously.... Happy Mothers day...  lmao
joy	tweets	@smileindenial you're so much fun  Star Trek soon, ok? ;)
surprise	tweets	@spmwinkel Didn't realize you were that young! Advanced Happy Birthday Stefan. MTFBWY... Always!
surprise	tweets	@taufiqz LOL. You know me. I aim to please.
surprise	tweets	A girl in my big hair rock today, black velvet baby  ? http://blip.fm/~5z50g
joy	tweets	@MrCav lol.. ass monkey
surprise	tweets	@mschiefmaker Thanks madam.. you're lucky coz you had a wonderful dog.. and sooo cute...
joy	tweets	I'm bored, extremely bored. in the car. waiting for my dad. and dinner. chinese. yummm.
joy	tweets	@Touch_Reviews THANKS!
joy	tweets	@dekrazee1 You are doing the right thing though.  A fridge is where vegetables go to die
surprise	tweets	just got back from seeing Star Strek
joy	tweets	@hilaryjp  I have sun here
joy	tweets	@iamTAYON I would if I was drivin :\ hahaha. but get me a Carol C. Special, yeah?
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday to @AndrewGirdwood !
joy	tweets	@RealBillBailey Cool show last night had me in fits
surprise	tweets	@HeatherAnnP Yayyy
joy	tweets	?????????????????????YAY it works haha
joy	tweets	@hopeluvfaith aww lovely! Hope you had a great mother's day, our little mother hen  did you get in contact with sharn?
joy	tweets	@Tayler_Nicole wow you are lucky  happy birthday!
joy	tweets	@RAVERJONO good, good.  what could it be then? :o
joy	tweets	@ElvenstarArt Great !!! Your book looks fantastic ? I want it
joy	tweets	@ohshititsdre awww! i didnt see this till now and edwin just left! i knew you wanted some! forsure tomorrow i'll make u a new batch!
joy	tweets	Outz wif the BIG BIG BIG HAPPY FAMILY for mommy's day meal. And Happy Mommy Day to all Mommys out there!
joy	tweets	@natsnapper haha. Booked my lie in last night. Just woke up. Must have needed it!!
joy	tweets	@mogz Yes, I downloaded it from the website and since I'm tweeting from it now, it must work
surprise	tweets	WOOT! favourtie, well second favourite episode just came on TOW ross and rachel ... you know
joy	tweets	@mareenshere How it was slept?
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers' Day to my mom, your mom, his mom and her mom! Woot woot.. moms rule!
joy	tweets	oh yeah the grill is out...its bbq tonight at the house
joy	tweets	BBQ with Andrew, his sisters, and Jeff.  So much fun!
joy	tweets	@YoGottiKOM when u gonna come show minnesota some love though hun?!
joy	tweets	10 Cutest Cat moments video - http://shrt.st/4ce - enjoy
joy	tweets	Alright... i need to get sleep so i can ACTUALLY be awake for my mothers' day! ;) Nighty Nightzzz Or good morning my twitter friends!!!
joy	tweets	No credit left on my mobile sorry Brit! *pounces back* Thanksss Tania for the EPIC photoshoot
surprise	tweets	@sarahmarina mmm hmmm and big big bro too! I have a crush on David Knight.
joy	tweets	... We are playing an acoustic set @ Styles Bar today @ 3!!! Hope to see you there  ...
surprise	tweets	some of my new followers are pretty cool peeps; check 'em out.
joy	tweets	Obama is the ish!!!!  he is funny!
joy	tweets	Happy mothers day!
joy	tweets	@drkchna Lunch, yes. A date, nope.
joy	tweets	Living my life
joy	tweets	Photo: thelovelybones: I SPY JONAS BROTHERS AND DEMI LOVATO OMG D: Ahhh yea, 3d movie premire  http://tumblr.com/xbb1qyx0e
joy	tweets	@sageeb you say the nicest things.
joy	tweets	@adamjackson With McDonald's promoting the McCafe (similar to Starbucks), we may soon see McSmoothies (like Jamba Juice) next
joy	tweets	@StampfliTurci  yes I can imagine, I need my morning coffee otherwise I cannot function, have a good and relaxing Sunday
joy	tweets	@timdifford ohhh beautiful place. You on hols? Go steady on the mead!
joy	tweets	@anamoorz yeh i do like playing sk8 but i dont own it . i dont even own xbox 360 lol. i skate down at the skateprk tho
joy	tweets	Forget it. Callin it a night! It's MOMMY'S DAY!
joy	tweets	some of my new followers are pretty cool tweeps; check 'em out.
joy	tweets	@catsinthetree Listened to Eyes on Fire and enjoyed it.  Thanks
surprise	tweets	I love @therealsavannah! Thank you SO much for saying &quot;hi to Jenn &amp; Laura&quot; yesterday in Arcadia! My friend Shannon surprised me w/the vid
joy	tweets	Just finished filming for the day  another fun day on the set! Hahaha!
joy	tweets	Happy moms day
joy	tweets	those secondary school cooking lessons came to good use today. I made shepherd's pie for my mama.
joy	tweets	@ALOliver lol liking your style Alice tell him you've got standards to maintain lol, it's national Cork girls go wild in london week
joy	tweets	@tracysummers04 Im pleased hun
joy	tweets	@Jenehhh Feeling inspired this evening, huh?
joy	tweets	@pranaydewan thanku  cooking is simple but the law is- u hve to have fun while u make it
joy	tweets	I'm seeing quite a few proto-furries here, now that I think of it.  #acen
joy	tweets	@chearn73 thank you  make sure u read the groups description to better understand this project
joy	tweets	@devyra  do you know if anyone from the believers never die tour is going on warped? i know  i can't wait haha
joy	tweets	@KhairulHulk @SyamMasri supporting superfly all the way
joy	tweets	@rkuang i know, right? i'm super-excited - i told y'all this is the busiest time of year for me
joy	tweets	Hey! Let's Follow each other! Wouldn't that just be awesome!?
surprise	tweets	@nicnicole nah i followed them first then they followed me. i think 12-306 overnight is pretty good
joy	tweets	happy mother's dayy!!! to me andd the rest of the fabulous mommy's out there
joy	tweets	@psstHOY of course.  jdoramas are the best.
joy	tweets	brendon thinks i'm lame..but i'm just drunk!
joy	tweets	I think that's our first proper contact with each other. It was amazing and brought a few tears to my eyes
joy	tweets	Marking going ok so far A's and B's so far - relieved it looks like I have future programmers in class
joy	tweets	@BB517 OMJ my sister brought Coldstone cupcakes today instead of a cake to celebrate bdays in family and I was so excited taking pics
joy	tweets	i can't wait. 2 more days till happiness.
joy	tweets	Haha. I just won a $1000 bet. I settled for $100.  Not bad.
joy	tweets	finally bought my new house
joy	tweets	about to have some cake for my sister's birthday
joy	tweets	@morningroc Dont worry man. You'll see me just as much this week as you did last week.
joy	tweets	I need 4 followers to get 100 followers!!  Fallow me!!!  I fallow you back!! ;)
joy	tweets	Sleepy time..   happy mothers day all u momz
joy	tweets	@solidmetalsnake that movie is awesome!
joy	tweets	Yes, I am
joy	tweets	phone was acting crazy today so i missed all my tweeties' updates  but i fixed it
joy	tweets	@ShanteRowlandd so how is the most wonderful mommy in the world doing?
joy	tweets	Its sunday morning and birds are chirping. Hoping for the best and praying that its the best.
joy	tweets	i want to wake up early, and get a coffee tomorrow (today) !  it's going to be a busyy day! but have to keep writing.. booo whoo!
joy	tweets	@Tiaantjee Name the rest? Let's see. Mystery Jets are pretty cool. Ida Maria AND you shud rly listen to Say Anything!
surprise	tweets	dice watching Heroes again.  http://plurk.com/p/svhvh
joy	tweets	@ALOliver You've got to have standards Alice otherwise were would we be ,,,,,? you got to enjoy life it's what life is for
joy	tweets	is going to get her ass in gear, have some brekkie then make a start on the kitchen! woo! BBQ later too  Good times
joy	tweets	All the bike chat, makes me think we should sign up to this http://www.bigbikeride.co.uk @darrenstenhosue @niceguyali @ anyonewithbike
joy	tweets	@Oreosandcheese That's a great idea
joy	tweets	ok im about to passs out. tonight was lovely  buenas noches mi gente.. tomorrow we shall party it up again!
joy	tweets	@ALOliver I am!  going on a hike today!
surprise	tweets	@karmadillo You are very, very good. Why didn't I think of that?
joy	tweets	Star Trek is awesome!! Kirk is hot, Spock is cool. It's fun, cool and sexy. Definitely worth seeing. I saw it at the Cinerama.
joy	tweets	@boelzebub automated porn-downloader would have to know which porn you like. youporn has this new recommendation feature
joy	tweets	@Natalie_Brown Thank you so much Natalie, hope u are well
joy	tweets	Made a bomb and it blew in my mouth!..just made the best F*ing dinner!
joy	tweets	And I'm back, from a sooper dooper, extra bharia, extra dhumchik two day stay at mom's place, yay!  It's a fun fun feelin'
joy	tweets	Ps Brian just announced his message title, &quot;what is in you will flow from you&quot; My friend replied &quot;cheescake??&quot; Ha!
joy	tweets	@billingtonart think gone enjoy the beautyy of the nature , maybe sit down anywhere and write a little ,just trying to finish my last pic
joy	tweets	@okneil welcome home wherever that may be
joy	tweets	@Neil_Duckett GREAT pic!  How fun!  Love food and wine festivals...well, beer fests too
joy	tweets	@Mummyofmany Jesus heals
joy	tweets	Toasted Baked Bean Sandwiches and red wine, a perfect  sunday night dinner combination
joy	tweets	@Orch1d: i really adore your K-POPPED site ! http://k-popped.com/ haha
surprise	tweets	Join the biggest and bestest group on facebook  http://bit.ly/cDrbt
joy	tweets	@JessMcFlyxxx gdgd well i better go and get ready for work :| haha have fun tonight  x x
joy	tweets	@MichelleCorydon Thanks!
joy	tweets	@ddlovato Good to hear you're bck!! don't let stupid rumours put u down! as long as ur fans r behind you, you got nothing to worry bout  x
joy	tweets	@jadeofjades www.youtube.com/watch?v=CyJvgnP9-vA sowwwwyy! U girls make me twisted all time
joy	tweets	@AdistaKim I was going to hidden-file it and you're thinking about youtube? SO NOTT! Lol. Hey put the phone down and more swimming
joy	tweets	@lilbumbles Happy Mother's Day to the only mother I have on my list!
joy	tweets	Watching Rugrats  anndd Tweeting, of course!
joy	tweets	@halden2714 Thank you!
joy	tweets	@Tiaantjee BTW: Does it offend you, yeah? - We are rockstars. Pretty ok.
joy	tweets	Good morning   http://bit.ly/Tjvhv
joy	tweets	got in a fist fight with a old biker guy.......and how dare you even ask, yes i kicked his ass
joy	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
joy	tweets	@vincenthofmann  Yes. But, Cute AND Predictable works for you...
joy	tweets	@GoonersNato - Aww, yeah, dear Nicky  .
joy	tweets	@JessMcFlyxxx yeaahh xD i think one of them are dancing!! A little kid! woo!  xx
joy	tweets	@heartbomb haha i do! that was my fave san-x character. that's rirakkuma.
joy	tweets	Morning all  Up and at the washing machine already!! Going to mum and dads house to get the house ready for wedding day...busy busy busy
joy	tweets	@gcrush thank YOU!! You guys did awesome things for my blog tonight  so grateful!!
joy	tweets	@theasiangoddess thanks for the #followfriday  right back atcha!
joy	tweets	Getting ready to go study outside while having some fun in such a nice sunny day.
joy	tweets	@Sharmi A pretty black top with flowers in pink hues
joy	tweets	@bluecat7  i definitely will , although with the caveat  that i normally only read non fiction..but have more in recent years read novels
surprise	tweets	@xxlaurenbeexx thanks  have fun at work lol xxx
joy	tweets	Is Skyping with family
joy	tweets	@RealBillBailey Bill, absolutely fantastic programme. Loved the 'cow bell' bit towards the end.
joy	tweets	Someone just admitted to having a crush on me.. That's cool
joy	tweets	@Mrjaydeeone thanks for the add  I'll try again signing in later when I get home. If still no such luck then I'll email someone
joy	tweets	Everything is better with a bag of weed
surprise	tweets	&quot;somebody calls you, and you answer quite slowly, a girl with kaleidoscope eyes&quot;     yeah, im normal.
joy	tweets	Finally made it through Dead Space, that only took half a year
joy	tweets	is at work...gettin paid to sit on my arse as there are no guests down yet!! mum is comin up after  eexcited
joy	tweets	@duck_ily Thanks for coming out, cuz
joy	tweets	i learnt something new today
surprise	tweets	@Lanulahbelle thankfully, no  why are you still up??
joy	tweets	@fatinee haha  i did! many times before!
joy	tweets	@angryfaggot, Whered you end up going? I stayed in &amp; watched SNL, one of the funnier shows theyve done this season.
joy	tweets	@Shannonbabeee Are y'all coming out today??? We could go to the graveyard!!  HOORAYY!!!!!
surprise	tweets	mmmmm my hair smells guuud.  the wonders of &quot;pantien&quot; ;D
surprise	tweets	@ALOliver i bet they did  some people have no ideia or standards  have a lovely time the pair of you
surprise	tweets	@jalenrose Cavs has the easier route than Denver.
joy	tweets	@PeteMoring Well it's nice to 'see' you. Have a great day and tweet again soon
joy	tweets	@Thea_Smith glad the zoo was fun and you had a great mothers day hun
joy	tweets	&quot;Completely dishwasher safe, except that the pattern might come off.&quot; Blue Coat humour at its best  Three cheers for Viz
surprise	tweets	@BB517 Well I will send out an email and you all can pick your fave cake and ice cream flavor  and the &quot;cup&quot; part is belgian chocolate
joy	tweets	@MichaelDalmer It's IQ is high when it comes to knowledge about how to swim round'n'round in the bowl...
joy	tweets	@shubhamsingal ....nope.. its for the 1st time we invited her at SSM  and she very graceful accepted it !
joy	tweets	http://tinyurl.com/oqsqz6 Grace's FunZen magic mood tool for keeping her cool in the pool of real life which is now yours too
joy	tweets	Good morning everyone  It's a nice day #iloveitwhen the sun is shining. And now I'm going to write some stuff
joy	tweets	@bradiewebbstack every time you write a tweet the always make me smile  just had to let you no
joy	tweets	@sarahnd for nearly a month!!  So exciting
joy	tweets	@aminorjourney - I did see it...looks so retro!   I wouldn't say no to rerecordings...fans LOVED Given One Change.  You have CS Fans!
joy	tweets	@kjofficial I'm sure you left the audience awestruck Katherine. Looking forward to reading some wonderful reports.
surprise	tweets	@anjelfich yay! You're on twitter!
surprise	tweets	Found controls for left hand people like me on twitterrific. Excellent
joy	tweets	@bradiewebbstack i had had a baked dinner yummy  cant wait for new short stack tv, what kind of dips shall it be?
joy	tweets	@bradiewebbstack haha sounds like your going to have heaps of fun  xx
joy	tweets	Was quite amusing watching Pangaea sing &quot;F*** Killah Priest!&quot; I guess he won't be featuring on their album
joy	tweets	#mikeywayday? Count me IN
joy	tweets	@ShannonCleary1 sounds like a perfect way to spend a sunday evening. Enjoy
joy	tweets	Yesterday was AWESOME ! Sunny day, best friends, good food &amp; tons of fun - what more could you ask for ?
joy	tweets	hey guys  we just wanted to announce a marathon! so, let's just say...GET READY FOR A COUPLE EPISODES!
joy	tweets	word to yer mother!!   \m/
joy	tweets	@courtney_ozaki LOL you gooot that riiight!!  i mean, how can you not twatt about something so cool xD
joy	tweets	Dear journal, i had sex with earl tonight. It was the most amazing thirty seconds of my life!
joy	tweets	Happy robbie drank a good bit, as long as he doesn't wake up sick
joy	tweets	had a cracking night last night, don't think i've ever laughed so much  nice, lazy day today woop!
joy	tweets	@Cubikmusik ah great  will have a fiddle later and see what I can figure out!
joy	tweets	@trainright http://twitpic.com/4vgzy - Moving is great, especially if lots of them help.
joy	tweets	just got eminem tix for friday
joy	tweets	@chrisaston Woo hoo!! Congratulations
joy	tweets	I guess I'll use TwitterFox for a while, now
joy	tweets	@ukcatalogue fabulous combination till A. It arrives, B. The bill comes! Fun chatting to you. Have a good Sunday!
joy	tweets	up and at work im ina good mood
joy	tweets	has found a free wifi point ... and it's sunny
surprise	tweets	@Maxsy seriously?? link plzz
joy	tweets	@mitsuhiko Np mate, was great meeting you in Prague
joy	tweets	Is up, coffee in hand with laminate floor to lay then Footy to watch and play, living the dream
joy	tweets	gonna walk around for an hour now :I but I'm totally motivated! Wahahaha
joy	tweets	@jaztwitta welcome home babe!
joy	tweets	@wendy_fred6 Awww... :/ I guess that's both good and bad, moving is not an option I guess?  Mhm, so are you, hehe ;) (we have same time?)
joy	tweets	@ChieriNagase 120mm films usually handled at Fuji  Oh I met a girl at San Diego. Kwento soon. I miss youuu!
joy	tweets	Fab wedding yesterday, feet still sore from dancing so must be a good sign. V glad to wake up in my own bed this morning
joy	tweets	@Catboy_Dubai Enjoy sounds idyllic AND Geordiebird has lost her bikini...perfect holiday!
joy	tweets	is back at home...had a great day  http://plurk.com/p/svkc8
joy	tweets	just finished watching my copy of the Twilight DVD. Ganda ng mga deleted and extended scenes.  http://plurk.com/p/svkch
joy	tweets	man only thing i would chng about vegas is those british boys wayyyy to hot
joy	tweets	Roast was yummy, I think mum was impressed!!!
joy	tweets	I love being in charge
surprise	tweets	First surprise birthday ever, best night I've had in a damn long time!
joy	tweets	@ememcoolj your face makes people laugh. cause you're so ugly. so you're half-way there
joy	tweets	barely awake, eating breakfast.. marathon morning!   Good luck to all the racers, and happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	@FindingCeej hala! you're finally here
joy	tweets	@punnie I don't use it, but I heard that PowerShell is nice
joy	tweets	I Got it!
joy	tweets	Sang on xbox lips and drunk beer my weekend rocks so far
joy	tweets	I think im becoming obsessed with MGMT- kids  &lt;3
joy	tweets	its ok @samcarterrules saw u with joey thought u looked interesting like the same things on  #SanctuarySunday
surprise	tweets	Ooopps over slept. Is it really 10am? Best get up then and get my shizzle in gear
joy	tweets	i dyed my hair back to super black again!
joy	tweets	@IshraSharif ISHRA!! haha, cassie ventura? ...not after her haircut! where were you yesterday during the beat music awards?
joy	tweets	Tiesto in Vicky Park - how excellent
surprise	tweets	had the BEST Italian meal EVER last night! twas godly! i thinks we may get our kitty cat today
surprise	tweets	Just came back from my first city rooftop party  Man, even when you're next to THE New Yorker Bldg, it still gets pretty windy up there.
joy	tweets	@TheSUPERGIRL Extremely excited! i'm 15 days behind you
joy	tweets	watching merlin omg he is cute
joy	tweets	@bradiewebbstack ooh yay, its been forevs since last ss tv  baked dinner is so good, how yummy. I had prawns  xx
joy	tweets	F1 &amp; Star Trek...what a great Sunday
joy	tweets	@TonyEmmerson Sounds nice! If you try the recipe you gotta tell me how it turned out!
joy	tweets	@KevJaffray you too!  Cloudy day here in Madrid, typical Spring day
joy	tweets	good day to all of you!! Another lindy day today! Level A, B, FREE tester at 20:00 (Olympiou Diamanti 25, 6th floor, Thessaloniki) !!
joy	tweets	@Tegs03 bahah that would be really funny she would be really cut haha
joy	tweets	@DanWarp http://twitpic.com/4so0u - OOO i wish i was her  he's hot
surprise	tweets	@AnOldMasterJukz You're welcome
joy	tweets	&amp;&amp;the night continues!  w/ my fav mazie; kristina; ericka &amp;&amp; robin!
joy	tweets	chilling
joy	tweets	@scottrmcgrew I know sleep is so over rated! who needs it, right!
surprise	tweets	@MSNEWYORKER26 wow cute Pic
joy	tweets	@bradiewebbstack Haha  i like you default picture.     Meow.
joy	tweets	@thirtysix Funnily enough, Roland is President of my social club!
joy	tweets	Greys Anatomy is so fuckn awesome atm!!
joy	tweets	@solangeknowles www.youtube.com/watch?v=6UrRxta8doM this was the first 1!
joy	tweets	Still in bed enjoying the spring  sunshine streaming in the window, woke at 5am rigid, extreme pain and exhausted but i'm positive today
joy	tweets	the cuckoo is back! this year's model starts chirping  at 11 am instead of 4 am.
joy	tweets	@DJ_AM Well what can I say - you do look Hot in your pic... That's gotta work for most of us...
surprise	tweets	I finally went and found some of the songs we sang in church in Wellington online. Was easier than expected - yay Google!  #fb
joy	tweets	Wishing @Blacksocialite a Happy Mothers Day
joy	tweets	@harmonjames You geek!
joy	tweets	@chelsea_playboy yehh just signed
surprise	tweets	@emmacrook Not going to dwell on it. It happened, it's passed. Just a shame as he was so supportive! Such is life!  x
joy	tweets	@angryfaggot, Decaf? I can do some teas late but never coffee- Id fly around the room. Justin Timberlake hosted. FUNNY sketch w/ Samberg
joy	tweets	@hollywoodtv alison is great around miley love to meet her, when you see her can you tell her to give a shoutout to @brad92190  #1 fan
surprise	tweets	@TeamCyrus morning  how are you?
joy	tweets	I haven't slept this good in such a long time... I feel great.
surprise	tweets	@Matthew_cowan oh cool!  I'm gonna crash and sleep. I have been like 40 some hours working lol
joy	tweets	@MyCaribbeanFood enjoy and congrats! thanks for the recipe we'll do it tomorrow morning.
joy	tweets	Sewing things is nice  I feel crafty and productive. And foxy.
surprise	tweets	Bread in the oven, room cleaned... almost done with the things on the list for today
joy	tweets	@lrpw1302 Thank you  x
joy	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
joy	tweets	Came tantalizingly close to acing a Facebook communism quiz. One question has &quot;I hope Britain will be next communist&quot; as correct answer.
joy	tweets	@mr_trick It's all good  The next 6 months are going to be awesome.
joy	tweets	good morning everyone! hope you al have a lovely sunday!  (and i do hope it doesnt rain tomorrow :|)
joy	tweets	getting ready to leave school on wednesday
joy	tweets	My favourite photo (that I took) from last night: http://tinyurl.com/oto5sz can't wait to see @byronrode's pics
joy	tweets	Efteling was great, had a nice time with family, had dinner.. forget my keys in the car  hmmm! Bless the ANWB! Back in Germany now
joy	tweets	I always forget how much fun kyle is!
joy	tweets	Just woke up. Gonna have a shower and go to Nan's for Mother's day lunch. Happy Mother's day
joy	tweets	Ah, finally at home in my comfy bed. Goodnight
joy	tweets	@Sims3Nieuws just have been away for 2 years: not playing sims but World of Warcraft
joy	tweets	@DeanBenninger God bless you my dear friend...
joy	tweets	Aly &amp; AJ new album this summer. YAY!
surprise	tweets	@ebrown2112 LoL that's from last winter (only a few months ago December) I'm in Seattle, felt like Siberia this last winter
joy	tweets	@fiercemichi well that's good  and i'm a fast learner. Mmm  Zachary...be prepared 4 me t randomly mention him at any given time. he yummy.
joy	tweets	im exploring my home xD (back from vacation!) Nice to be @ home!
joy	tweets	is about to eat a hot link torta!!
joy	tweets	@laingrithdz Thanks a lot! You're very kind!  I just got back from a nice drive in the 500. Such a fun car to drive  Have a nice day!
joy	tweets	Mornin world! Hmmm... I was supposed to be up early. Oh well!
joy	tweets	@vieirasboots - all is fine  thanks! you guys dont have any quakes there?
joy	tweets	i miss mcfly last night so much!! i was front row centre  danny was making me laugh so much LOL
joy	tweets	@adneonheart oh my god, i finally found someone online! haha
joy	tweets	@marginatasnaily Yes, you really should!
joy	tweets	Proud 2 B a trekkie . The new Star Trek movie RUUULLZZZ
joy	tweets	@NLiukin OMG so exctied
joy	tweets	@Takaki_I Yeah poor Yao! Hope u had fun looking at the Lakers JerseyZ haha! Enjoy ur time buddy !
surprise	tweets	@studioyourcom on 14th of may we exist 5 years!
joy	tweets	yays poker win!  that and sketchy student decided to show up today. lawl
joy	tweets	the globe theatre rocks.......nothing better than romeo &amp; juliet as it was supposed to be watched
joy	tweets	the sun is shinning! im off out!!
joy	tweets	rsvp-ed qiuqiu's wedding invitation
joy	tweets	@lancearmstrong is that like Planes, Trains, and Automobiles?  Best of luck Juan Pelota.
joy	tweets	@oohnoo that's great!! weee!! visitors!
joy	tweets	@laurenwhispers Greenday are coming in December
joy	tweets	@andyclemmensen have you seen the game on the website?! awesomness!!! go on msn!
joy	tweets	@rebeccamezzino It's a great movie - My best is the Welsh flatmate
joy	tweets	@supergrassfan Cheers John, thanks for following me. Look forward to your twitterings too. Think this'll be a good place for my rants  xxx
joy	tweets	@andyclemmensen have you seen the game on the website?! awesomness!!! go on msn
disgust	tweets	Watching mens volleyball on TV.  For some reason its not as good as womens beach volleyball.  Cant quite place why
joy	tweets	If EVERYONE constantly retweeted that it would make it!
joy	tweets	I'm at Cobra, Mexican bird flu hub/gay bar, and hate when they play the 80's mix. Oh shit, FREEZE FRAME
joy	tweets	@andyclemmensen have you seen the game on the website?! awesomness!!! go on msn!
joy	tweets	just came back from seeing the boat that rocked, it was an amazingly cool movie, definitely getting it on DVD once its out
joy	tweets	goodnight all in the twitterverse
joy	tweets	@Eemma http://twitpic.com/2aa0m - So this is where you're getting the $$$ for the island
joy	tweets	@_NyLana_ An! Happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	good morning folks!   what ya gonna do today? it's mothers day
joy	tweets	One for the Mum's - HAPPY MOTHERS DAY! &amp; a special mention 4 one of our newest members: @Holly_Jane, Hope @DHughesy was good 4 u &amp; 2 u
joy	tweets	@forkncork I'll be thinking about how many goals United are going to knock past City. How 'bout you?
surprise	tweets	@slinqui - Aw, well I'm glad to hear you're okay. Try a hot bath or a cup of tea maybe to calm you down. I worry about you!
joy	tweets	Is still awake at 5AM but for way better reasons.  A fantastic night with fantastic people... and fantastic food!!
joy	tweets	Having a cup of tea  I have a cold so it's tasting really good!
joy	tweets	yesterday was fun.. 1st concert of the year [i know, i'm late xD].. buena vista social club live FOR FREE..
joy	tweets	Headed home, see yall in the A.M. Tweets
joy	tweets	still working on my mom's mothers day gift....shh, its a slideshow
joy	tweets	&quot;Thick as pig shit - went to Oxford&quot; - Helena's (Cantab) friend's description of me to her boyfriend, yesterday...
joy	tweets	@MariahCarey im kinda tired enough to sleep, but &quot;Migrate&quot; has got me up singing along, haha
joy	tweets	DH at work, DD7 at party. Seriously thinking of treating DS9 and myself to sushi lunch - after all, it IS Mother's Day here!
joy	tweets	@sweethoneyguy awww THANK YOU!  you are a great guy too  how's ur weekend been so far?  hugs xxx
joy	tweets	@spanglegluppet *laughs* I'm glad that you have self confidence - it's a wonderful trait to have  I'll applaud extra loud for it, okay?
joy	tweets	Have just slept for 14 hours, would have been longer but working this pm
surprise	tweets	Watching Battlestar Galactica Season 1...Yeah you read it right!
joy	tweets	@GeekySteph also, try Friendly Fires if you haven't already heard them. great stuff  AND Florence and The Machine. Great, great music
joy	tweets	@LimeIce Err, I get that  Now, with the TimThumb, what's with the url?
surprise	tweets	@djbrandigarcia we got Watts, Chingo Bling, The Chile.. can't do this thang without BGeezy, we need u on the show!   http://bit.ly/12R3c3
surprise	tweets	@kyan_onefm on air celebrating? ur mum is there? Not working la. Starbucks alone. My mum is in hometown. So had a delay till next week
joy	tweets	Mexican coca cola in a bottle. New favorite thing.  No high fructose corn syrup....  sugar is so awesomely old school.
joy	tweets	had a cool lil night. Now at Berrie's about to eat pizza waitin for @NOEL4PRESIDENT
joy	tweets	@xoJennyPennyxo I like too  how are you?
joy	tweets	the sun is shining and i'm off for a driving lesson
joy	tweets	has done the ChocoSlam with his brother. As usual, there were some failures.  I finally burnt my tongue. HAHAHAHA! Stupid me.
surprise	tweets	@joshboulton Yeah I guess he does sound a bit odd 'cause he's saying really quickly
joy	tweets	Watching videos on Facebook makes me feel like the biggest creep. Which I guess I am. Also, tweet #200! Woohoo!
joy	tweets	Paul Scanlon sharing from God's Word this morning, he's sounding a bit hoarse perhaps a touch of *#cold*? It won't hold our Pastor back
surprise	tweets	aw 82 - 90. only 8 points &amp; we kicked 4 behinds to their 18 .. we're getting better and better each week!
joy	tweets	@noxhanti  LOL --&gt; don't mention it, my pleasure!!
joy	tweets	lookin forward to jam with DJ Kimosave on the 16th @ The Loft
joy	tweets	munchin BACON BUTTIES! woohoo!!  my faves!!!
joy	tweets	Here's @Euan and @stoweboyd at our evening drink on Thursday night in London.  http://twitpic.com/4wrrp
joy	tweets	Eating a dillybar from DQ! Yuuum
joy	tweets	@Beverleyknight so is it a day of 'pleasure' for you or is it a Personal Appearance?? all in all, sounds a good day with good weather!!
joy	tweets	@rv109creek ay buti pa kayo!!!! uy thank you!!
joy	tweets	just got the bouquet of flowers for my mom  HEHEHE SWEET )
joy	tweets	@gnomeangel Yep!!
joy	tweets	Home from work. A few hours of sleep then putting some miles on the new bike.
joy	tweets	@OhaiGabriella O: aw, frank  i like that movie, it's cool. i don't fully understand, but i think that's cool (:
joy	tweets	@achurches why yes ... a bag of goodies  lol
joy	tweets	@BrianMcnugget rofl that's what we like to hear
surprise	tweets	For @Claire_inLaPush because she misses Quil so...  Far Away ~Nickleback ? http://blip.fm/~5z639
joy	tweets	This is for all of you ppl! The 1 year Anniversary Video. http://is.gd/ysbs more to come after the break
joy	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
joy	tweets	@telesilla Indeed. Thanks for sharing that! Now I can go to sleep giggling. Night!
joy	tweets	I WANT RED CRUISERS!!  i don't like the other ones. LMFAO!
surprise	tweets	@Reptar01 what do you mean it sit funny? I like the way it looks!!!  and I took the other part of the nail off. It didn't hurt that time!
joy	tweets	Stitches out. Very brave boy, no anesthetic, just cbeebies to dull the pain.
surprise	tweets	@blackmantra yes indeed!  nice to see you on twitter! Why do you ask? xx
joy	tweets	Good Morning  i ate pizza for breakfast
joy	tweets	I love waking up and thinking it's a weekday, but then realizing it's the weekend.
joy	tweets	@littledeaths Thank you  xx
joy	tweets	New toys.
joy	tweets	@sethu_j 4ever, it was in she's the man aswell  I love them now. I want gossip girl too! Have decided summer = spending lots.
joy	tweets	@FlissTee Oh, fabulous ta.  I'm with the coffee too, obviously, although my cup is not large enough to embrace which is its deficiency.
joy	tweets	@Lee_bandoni Ok, see you at da climbing
joy	tweets	Just got home. So glad I decided to go out. Yay for new friends. Yay for a hug from my crush. Happy
joy	tweets	good morning twitterworld!  slept too less..
joy	tweets	if u have a friendster add me!!!!!!!!!        my email adress      add me  loco_crime_1st@yahoo.com        add me leave some comment
joy	tweets	@moonfrye Happy Mothers Day
joy	tweets	Still awake lol Finished talking to a really good Brawl player. We talking in SmashSpace.ning.com  Join the website if you like SSBB!
surprise	tweets	@PerezHilton it looks like you have a lot of fun with lady gaga
joy	tweets	Hello twitting world!  We are off to best buddies bbq  but untill then Jay z is on Spotify
joy	tweets	Perfect night. Best month of my life so far!! You my boo, @RyanFeero
joy	tweets	@dougiemcfly hey cant wait 4 u guys 2 come over 2 jersey woop.... hope ur lookin 4ward 2 it coz we r  x
joy	tweets	@devyra hahahaha definitely!  still writing?
joy	tweets	Yay! Go wyattt your totally amazing'!'! Im So happy for you.  yay
joy	tweets	@JayJager well donkey has his own appeal, for sure.
surprise	tweets	@TiffanyDow well I hovered over the button LOL NOT - sleep well Tiff and you are welcome
joy	tweets	Had the best night I've had in a while.
joy	tweets	@brgd oh cool you are coming to berlin    ! ! !
joy	tweets	@ParentByNature that is so lovely
joy	tweets	@whitepaws_husky Thank you!  And I hope karma beats those fuckers into the ground.
surprise	tweets	@BrianMcnugget Yay! Lets welcome Mrs Mcnugget to twitterverse!
joy	tweets	up and reading the (maltese) sunday newspaper over coffee... Aaaah.. Glorious Sundays
joy	tweets	Finally going home! Its been a long night.. Ready to crash and have awesome dreams
joy	tweets	a surprisingly good day, now its time to sleep. hopefully sweet dreams await me
joy	tweets	Goooood beer tiiiimes
joy	tweets	HEY TWEETERZ. GO ON ITUNES NOW &amp; BUY @JoshBkelley and @ryan_cabrera 's NEW HIT SINGLE &quot;TELL IT LIKE IT IS&quot;
joy	tweets	she is only 2 years and she's the funniest thing when she is dancing! she's sooo happyyyy!
joy	tweets	@InfamousDolly oh yeah them too. LOL
joy	tweets	meeting up with strangers. lol. alone in vegas. amazing.
joy	tweets	Yeah for Smallville, my late night savior. It's the one where Clark meets young Flash, total awesomeness
surprise	tweets	@LMangueArt Yeah, Sabrina..though I keep thinking it's something else.  Cary Grant ain't too shabby either. Bringing up Baby
joy	tweets	@mslittlekho love this one, especially the shoes  anyway, gmn punya acc lookbook ya? http://lookbook.nu/look/92920
joy	tweets	@DannysGhirl hehe i found ya
joy	tweets	@Storm_Crow Morning!
joy	tweets	@katherineclare australian hardcore/metalcore scene is amazing right now. look up third strike and chelsea smile. AND BMTH IN 7 DAYS
surprise	tweets	@LittlestarRed Oh you understand French?  Well, maybe I exxagerated it a little bit lol but they all want at least 1/2 years of exp. :-/
joy	tweets	@BrianMcnugget excellent  looks like you'll have some twitterific competition
joy	tweets	Off to work
surprise	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wry2 - look, @camathome, the rosemary in my back garden, in CameraBag's &quot;Lolo&quot; mode
joy	tweets	@frama_c Oh yeah. Point taken
surprise	tweets	@Gedankensturm Thank you  How's your daughter? And by the way, how did you get 1017 followers? :O
joy	tweets	@24kphotography Thank you! I appreciate that.
joy	tweets	is at my grandma's place with my mum, celebrating mothers' day in 3 generations. The 4th will come
joy	tweets	@russellburnham  nice one
joy	tweets	@marinasmom Yucky! We had our last soccer game of the season today...tryouts start Friday
joy	tweets	Season 2 of The Wire, done! Kinda weak compared to the first season but I expected that... Still good though  Season 3 here I come!
joy	tweets	@justineville that's what i did with my other friends dati e. i could totally do that.  Lian, Eina, Gelli, you, Zero &amp; Francis. we'll fit!
surprise	tweets	@ArianneFTSK you finally watched he's just not that into you arizzard  justin long is sexy isn't he! i told ya
joy	tweets	@JfB57 good morning
joy	tweets	It's so awesome to know that there are people who think I have what it takes to make it in Nashville, and who offer to help if I want it.
joy	tweets	not at work today .i have my car back she is perfect  going random shopping later .
joy	tweets	I have Vampire Knight  music!!!  I feel very special..
joy	tweets	@Jadeyyg http://twitpic.com/4wrxq - whens your little gingg getting twitter ? from g + j
joy	tweets	@sookyeong u mean VIP this time ? coz of the KBS thingy ? haha..
joy	tweets	going to get waterguns from tesco today   haha.   its sunny.
joy	tweets	@sentimentalizzy lady in the water is pure bs, but i remember enjoying his other films.
joy	tweets	Is having a BBQ today!
joy	tweets	And the Sun is shinning.........at last
joy	tweets	Bumping dj opus in the drunk in the car.  lmao. Don't act like u don't know.
joy	tweets	doing some DIY- I'm dying mg clothes black again...save some money
joy	tweets	she's smarter and classier. she's perfect for him. and, IM NOT.
joy	tweets	Tidied &amp; hoovered the whole flat - and all b4 10am today  Now we're heading out2 German bakery 4 breakfast followed by a walk in the park
joy	tweets	@musicalmover @shotbeak got my grubby paws on a live recording of paramore. you have to hear. its better than chocolate
joy	tweets	Guten Morgen/ Good Morning/
joy	tweets	somebody smuggle me to sydney, i'll be your slave for eternity
joy	tweets	Had fun 2nite...i was pleasantly surprised
joy	tweets	Mcfly evolution for the 4th time round
joy	tweets	just woke up...feelin a lil better  &lt;3
joy	tweets	I'm still at the mothers day lunch at my uncles house. Having a nice time!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4ws3m - I love family guy  2 hours of work to go..
surprise	tweets	Hello Twitters
surprise	tweets	@bradiewebbstack bit excited are u bradie lol
surprise	tweets	@ohmyjooo why did Ate Maita give you a message?  *curious* xD )) BTW,nice polaroid shot! ;;) from polaroid.net...? xD
joy	tweets	@camilleprats Happy Mother's Day!
joy	tweets	have you ever met a guy thatv was everything you want and need but you never really went for it w/ him ? g'nite Daddy
surprise	tweets	@jakeyboy26 cool, i'm glad you had a good time.  x
joy	tweets	Out for ultimate training. looking forward to the sunset!
joy	tweets	@MandyPandy32 Thanks hon!! Project Bra starts today!
joy	tweets	looks like yet another beautiful day in London
joy	tweets	can't be arsed to get out of bed  hello sunshine
joy	tweets	@natsnapper Thanks   Our little girl just loves animals so all the 'oohs' and 'aahs' were very cute!
joy	tweets	Got me a dark red hair dye, going to get some bleach
joy	tweets	going to head to bed now finally...goodnight! Hopefully my dreams will consist of ravishing things, such as: Zachary Quinto.
joy	tweets	going to a garden centre today. should be funn :/ currently drinking egyptian spice tea and watching hollyoaks
surprise	tweets	@lesley007 morning sweetie, you cool?  xxx
joy	tweets	Is gonna go for a shower  goin to see hannah Montana laterz woo well excited
joy	tweets	@shiraabel going through your tweets right now, probably missed all the good ones in the last 4 hours
joy	tweets	@Jonas_babe woo! im getting mine on monday,cant wait  x
joy	tweets	@BB517 LOL...I think it's safe to say that we are not alone in our thinking!
surprise	tweets	@t0mf Not really stuck on F1.. but as the weather is here today I might just stay in and watch it.
joy	tweets	had a shitload of fun with her friends
surprise	tweets	But caught Bullet Boys, Trixter (Pete was great), LA Guns AND Kix (who stole the show). Hung out backstage like a real rock and roller.
joy	tweets	@symphnysldr  you have every right to feel like a crazy fanboy! jason mraz and james morrison? the jealousy is tangible
joy	tweets	Cant stop playin' in my head  -- pussycat dolls jai ho ellen degeneres [HD] http://bit.ly/HxLfm
joy	tweets	Listening Maroon 5 .... &quot;Songs About Jane&quot; is one of my favourite albums in time
joy	tweets	@mitchalbom. very much enjoyed your &quot;whats in a name&quot; article
surprise	tweets	Morrningg  just slept for 12 hours and now i have a headache D;
joy	tweets	just had cheese on toast with ham (: about to get ready to go to LONDON!
joy	tweets	@f_nadzirah thanks!
joy	tweets	@timz_twitz lol...hiiii yourself. Maybe lay off the patron and down a bottle of water!
joy	tweets	@firequinito From the champion team in the defunct MBA, Cebu Gems!
joy	tweets	watching run fat boy run...haha its soo funny.
joy	tweets	sooo pleased the sun is shining today! garden here I come
joy	tweets	@onlyvicky Would you believe that I'm done with homework for the rest of my life?
joy	tweets	@Misstaken77 did you go out last night???? My Girls' Night In was fab, everyone made an effort dressing up
joy	tweets	@sarahfloss went with john grisham instead... she was very pleased &amp; never suspected a thing, lol. hope tomorrow is a better day for you
joy	tweets	there is never anything on tv, on sundays. CAN'T WAIT for america
joy	tweets	@gentlerabbit Awesome!  I'm glad they didn't screw it up!  I'll let you know Monday where we are going to watch it.
joy	tweets	14 days until Boyzone
surprise	tweets	@shezDOPEx3 Hey u  Whatchu up too? Isn't it past your bed time?
joy	tweets	is in a good mood
joy	tweets	What a perfect sunday morning!! Sun is shining, i feel so good - time for a perfect breakfast !!
joy	tweets	@geehall1 LOL! I had a peek at http://geehall.blogspot.com it's coming along nicely  I totally understand about leaving the set quiet too.
joy	tweets	@JasonBradbury YES! but keep them coming
joy	tweets	Our kids are both in a Derbyshire schools string concert at the Buxton Opera House today. They're both quite excited
joy	tweets	@NovaWildstar  Damn right!
joy	tweets	OMG i'm so happy as now,thanks to Micheal Sheen (aka Aro)  i know that the photoshoot for the volturi has been done!!! happies!!
joy	tweets	just joined twitter thanks to my M&amp;M!
joy	tweets	Reading my book in the sunshine, goona be a good day
joy	tweets	@bbrownnewcolleg congratulations!
joy	tweets	is relaxing after working on Mothers Day.  Oh well. A good day had.  Hope you are all well
joy	tweets	finally synced iPod
surprise	tweets	@ABIBAN where you ladies off to?
joy	tweets	catching up on my teevee shows.
joy	tweets	@affascinare hehee!! yea its supposed to sound mean.. hahhaa
joy	tweets	awesome milkshakes, i had areo mint,. we just blended it up, it was like a lumpy smoothie  so then we did some more chattering and ...
joy	tweets	@saltyshutter cool beans, yeah man - no prob at all
joy	tweets	@britneyspears thanks for following me, hope all is well and cant wait to see you in australia when ya come.
joy	tweets	@DougieMcfly Haha dude, we have the same b-date :p I'll wish u ur b-day the 3oth November. I'll also turn 16  Can u reply to me please ?
joy	tweets	Happy mother's day @mrskutcher
joy	tweets	@tkpleslie Have a friend that calls me &quot;Mother Earth&quot; when ever he seems me. Nurturing is second nature to some. (me) Have God Babies.
joy	tweets	Happy mothers day to all u milfs out there.
joy	tweets	@teamellyn sounds cool! Liverpool's ace, especially if you like the beatles cos there's museums and shops dedicated to them
joy	tweets	@JasonBradbury Not addicted, just sociable.
joy	tweets	@RODSMACK_10k much appreciated!  yeah, it sure is a challenge and a great reward. wouldn't trade it for anything.
joy	tweets	@novahalle i love everrything from breadtalk  i would eat the whole place if i could
surprise	tweets	@simonpeggster Hi Simon, I'm new to this too - but just thought I'd tell you Jimmy Carr has tweeted that you make the Star Trek movie.
joy	tweets	@bugmum oh and twas my very brilliant idea if I do say so myself  what can I say i'm an ideas woman
joy	tweets	Boarding the USS Enterprise.. Warp speed ahead!   #fb
joy	tweets	@victorglenn saw your pics, so awesome!
joy	tweets	@markng Sounds like a plan. Nice to see some positive thinking though rather than the usual &quot;media is dead&quot; tosh
joy	tweets	@iamkhayyam Haha, i came home from a long night out, and all i saw on Tweetie was Khayyam Wakil. I usually don't announce and shit - LOL
joy	tweets	@fixxatedstar Aww, thank you Soulmate! Haha.
joy	tweets	I like @catep36 already  (new follower to join in midst of zombies mayhem)
joy	tweets	@LittleFletcher hey ive seen the musical live its funny lol
joy	tweets	just came back home from NE gig, another fun night skankin...what a workout!
joy	tweets	Hi, i was just getting up now so i tought i could write something. Today i'm gonna go shopping! Soo fun, isn't it?
joy	tweets	@Sera030 heya  40 hour famine starts on may 22nd - are you gonna take part?
joy	tweets	happy mother's day to all mom's out there!!  we gave our mom a rose and we treat her to max's restaurant..how about yours?
joy	tweets	At the avenue, raining  so cool
joy	tweets	Lovely hubby has just spray tanned the back of my legs for me so hopefully won't look like an allsort for much longer!!
joy	tweets	@daveg38 You really are always dirty!!! Ha ha!!!! Do you have a sex addiction???
joy	tweets	Justin Timberlake, How You can easily become a reiki master?  at http://tinyurl.com/reiki88
joy	tweets	@wp101 Cheers! will do
surprise	tweets	Cheers Tony!!!! Btw notice no swear words in my tweets!
joy	tweets	@newtoid oh jealous. Though you're missing the fried potato bread
joy	tweets	@NovaWildstar Nothing of the sort! Nevertheless, I shall now go out and share my magnificence with the wider world!
joy	tweets	@LJsBaby Hahaha...gutted !! it's his birthday soon,so he'll have to wait until then. haha
joy	tweets	@sallyLFC I did my best, it is Sunday after all
joy	tweets	coraline was scary yesterday, didn't puke luckily.  ahaa. 1 week &amp; 1 day till i'm 14 baby
joy	tweets	@louiiseeeeee LMFAO. omgosh when i first heard that song with you,i felt like i was gonna pee myself, OMGOSH THE WALTZER MAN!  lol xoxo
joy	tweets	Is A Very Happy Bee, She Is Starting To Feel Better, &amp; Cant Wait For Her Birthday, what is 23 days
joy	tweets	@BridgetSupple  you have been busy, have a lovely time
joy	tweets	@SamBennington hey Samantha welcome  and happy mother's day!!
joy	tweets	I feel better today.
joy	tweets	@mbrevoort Thanks - that works a treat  Need to post that xml really though - thinking about how to emulate rails' ActiveResource
joy	tweets	i definitely win at life
surprise	tweets	@JasonBradbury for sure  ...suprisingly addictive tho, i only just signed up after months of trying to resist.
joy	tweets	Just got back from Kuantan Had sooooooo much FUN
joy	tweets	http://bit.ly/sJDLp  - Great Song! Cobra Starship Feat. Leighton Meester
joy	tweets	On our way to take photos at the park
joy	tweets	wooo am recovering from running race for life yest!!! i managed 36 mins 44secs, not bad for absolutley no trianing
joy	tweets	awake and ready to learn a little more
joy	tweets	bought awesome shooeessss
joy	tweets	Is off to watch arsenal v chelsea today
joy	tweets	@JeffTracey forward to starting teaching new students all about hypnosis, will have plenty of laughs I'm sure
joy	tweets	@bluevolvic  awesome   I'll have to keep a look out for it!
joy	tweets	@itslauraaa Yeah i like it
joy	tweets	@TaurinH I agree, it truly is the coolest/best thing I do everyday. I definitely wouldn't trade it for anything. Dads FTW!
joy	tweets	Just downloaded a podcast @ the bus stop
joy	tweets	Omg,... just had the best roast ever! but now im full haha,..
joy	tweets	finally home!! tomorrow is day 2 of &quot;Amazing&quot;.
surprise	tweets	@jsrobertojr uh-oh...you're creeping up on my 4th spot! hahaha.
joy	tweets	@Moonchild66 I'm sure It will be repeated soon, seems to be on  TV quite a lot lately. Glad you mentioned it last night, watched it again
joy	tweets	@ichliebexdich  hhahaa!    its well strange just woke up to an empty house ahah  lolllllyyyyyyyy&lt;3 love that dog
joy	tweets	morning  football today! thinking of learning some Applescript
joy	tweets	@Serenity265 Thanks hun! Next time we'll all go again
joy	tweets	@SubClub I was, I took your advice and it was most enjoyable  I am too small to be out alone or I would've just come over lol
joy	tweets	@sharkara dunno. Maybe the flu. I feel a bitbetter now.
joy	tweets	@azdog they already are in my books
joy	tweets	Off to the Dream World to battle the evil Spork Horde.  Later, folks.
joy	tweets	did some more work on Dig Dug. can get to level 16 without dying now  Mega Man tomorrow after work. Goal: 2 levels in 5 minutes
joy	tweets	@Jamie_127 good morning  one m,ore day YAY! #TwitterTakeover
joy	tweets	yay playing scattegories and being random with Joel, May &amp; Sherman
joy	tweets	went to church with @JessAttack t'was different lol
surprise	tweets	@spoonerist Oooh! goodluck for the rest of them
joy	tweets	Now I KNOW my shares are up...have 7 followers...wonderful!   The sun is now shining brightly in 'darkest Africa'...
joy	tweets	Driving fast is SO much fun. I went 80 in a 25. Hahaha. Goodnight!
joy	tweets	@clairemaxwell i know that feeling way too well - have a nice walk
joy	tweets	watching americas next top model yah haha
joy	tweets	@wendy_fred6 It's REALLY cool! No, I'm on a PC now, I don't have a Mac  well I do but it's ooooooooold  I do have an iphone tho
joy	tweets	My phone is ultra fast now with all the latest firmware updates installed!
joy	tweets	had an amazing night with the girls
joy	tweets	FacePanda is cool
surprise	tweets	@mr_billiam whoa..you're fast. Check it out I've submitted my comment . Oh, and thanks!
joy	tweets	@Misstaken77 always good to polish off a few in the comfort of your own home  Nothing mischevious went down, just a fab night gossiping...
joy	tweets	@caitiejayne ok sick which date suits u they are thursday night friday night and sat night i think laast 3 nights get in quick
joy	tweets	Heading to the office through a very quiet Stockholm, at least its not sunny
joy	tweets	#f1 soon  good luck brawn and mclaren fix up look sharp :p
joy	tweets	@Celebritymound peep this remix from &quot;The Wu Dynasty&quot; remix tape its delayed but this will give u a idea
joy	tweets	had the best weekend EVER  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
joy	tweets	@a_web_designer Lookin' good, mate
joy	tweets	@LollyDaskal Notebook ...what a marvellous film
joy	tweets	You follow me , I follow you. As simple as that
joy	tweets	Lazy sunday is finally here
joy	tweets	@AmyMeredithband amy meredith has a soccer team? well i also have news about soccer. my team won aswell!!  xx
joy	tweets	@SeanTheROBOT  Good Evening!~
joy	tweets	Heading of to the theatre! Having a show tonight, I'm so exited!
joy	tweets	@Narelle_NZ busy,fun mother's day thanks  got what I wanted...a Wii Fit!!! Yay
joy	tweets	Awake. Husband snoring faintly by my side. So happy
joy	tweets	I have new slippers! They are piggys! So so cute and very warm
joy	tweets	Excited for Rove tonight! Jennifer Garner and Gina Riley!
joy	tweets	@laraslattery Lara, thank you so much 4 the #FF recommend!
joy	tweets	@mmmonkman Nice one. Hahaha  Thanks for last night &lt;3
joy	tweets	it's the last day  in lonesometown
joy	tweets	goes to church  hallelujah!
surprise	tweets	where r all the 5am tweets from @oakleafchurch people...oh that's right...they opened the #houseofrock last night so they're still in bed
joy	tweets	@GoldenFish00 Thxx!! I was in the bathroom when you said it..
joy	tweets	@Susie_Nutbar Good morning  how are you? #TwitterTakeover
joy	tweets	ever been in a pointless argument with drunk mum, drunk nan and drunk mums bf while having dinner??? i have.... fun times all round  hahah
joy	tweets	@SarahJacinta Thanks!
joy	tweets	Beer pong  at 6am  with jess
joy	tweets	@LeMonjat Hehe, funny (the midget thing) ! Cheer up Alex, and wave from below  Is it that you are in Germany right now? .. or in Spain? ;D
joy	tweets	So so happy to be with @theblackqueen - she even makes doing laundry wonderful
joy	tweets	@MileyCyrusRox25 iam eating pizza, want some??? haha..
joy	tweets	Two days in country victoria and my stress is gone! I think I left her there to fend for herself
joy	tweets	@fnyc At least you're getting closer to normal bedtime. Enjoy your trip. Keep us updated. Sweet dreams
joy	tweets	@Meshel_Laurie Your father is a lucky man! He sounds like a fighter
joy	tweets	Dinner with the family. Watching wild child in the car
joy	tweets	I'm feeling higher than Mt Everest
joy	tweets	@masterballerina yeah, it's all teased up into this boofy bit...i'm buying red hair extensions btw
joy	tweets	Shhhweeeet-jay-z, bros back from from prom
joy	tweets	morrrning! the last day of a random but awesome weekend, gonna round it off in dbar style!  good timezzz.
joy	tweets	@furlongthedog Welcome to Twitter  I hoped it wouldn't be long before you saw the light and joined us!
joy	tweets	enjoying the sun with daddy, learning for englisch exam, watching gilmore girls
joy	tweets	At home about to go to sleep! Goodnight twitter world!
joy	tweets	@paula_mcfly Haha! Yeah, I heard they that Leicester won  I was home by my self, with a movie, some candy and a pizza.. ! Amazing evening
surprise	tweets	OMG - Madness Just Came On The Radio
joy	tweets	Packing up for the trip to Ascari track, thank you Bacardi
joy	tweets	Watched GossiP.Girl. Dan's so funny, haha.
joy	tweets	Good morning
joy	tweets	@Ste1987 relax, relax and relax a bit more  bbq today maybe? How about you?
joy	tweets	is celebrating her 21st birthday
joy	tweets	@Dr_Jared you guys can match... cute!  PS when are you visiting LA?!
joy	tweets	@NinjaFanpire Anytime! I'm off ~ I can't match your stamina... my nice, warm, comfy bed is calling (screaming) my name...lol Night Ninja!
joy	tweets	i like this new trend ,  who's next ? http://tinyurl.com/qcy8d4
joy	tweets	going to bed happy mothers day people
joy	tweets	@heycassadee I can't wait to see yall Friday !!!! I hope I meet u guys!! That would make the night even better
joy	tweets	@AgonisingNewt morning Newt...hope you are well!
joy	tweets	@fawcett94 - I'm not letting Reach sink. Thats for sure. I'm still presenting and joint HON! Owens Mon 8pm-10pm &amp; I'm Sat 2pm-4pm
joy	tweets	It's sunny and I feel really well today!  Yippeee!
joy	tweets	@IntelliCAD Perfect! Thank you.  &lt;3&lt;3
joy	tweets	Good morning!! Gonna clean the house a bit, then maybe clean some more, then do nothing for the rest of the day
joy	tweets	is chillin' with my hangover, hollyoaks and a plate of chips....sunday mornings
joy	tweets	Good morning everyone
joy	tweets	@michaelmeloni Yes! Join us! All we require is a cupcake donation...
joy	tweets	@JasonBradbury nice on the jet ski testing! Hope the book is going well. Cheers for adding me, got twitter after watching the gadget show
joy	tweets	Listening to Weightless by All Time Low. Thanks to @Katarinahj for making me listening to it!
joy	tweets	just gott home from work and now relaxing
joy	tweets	finally made it to the QC...happy mother's day!  got my car!!
joy	tweets	sunnn finnalllyyy!!  aint slept :| need some sleep
joy	tweets	@strandell that was several days ago! it was great though
joy	tweets	@BrianMcnugget I was sleep for all that and missed the fun! Hey DG.  lets play another gammme brian
joy	tweets	preparing to visit a friend  And we're gonna watch Twilight! Yay!
surprise	tweets	@JasonBradbury mmmmm you have someone on the inside ? or are you being brlliant again
joy	tweets	is really enjoying my weekend soooo much  hope u all are .
joy	tweets	@NajiahYahya YEAY!. haha. thank you so much jiah
joy	tweets	morrisons here i come!
joy	tweets	I'm so pleased with myself. I actually managed to run the whole 4km mothers day classic without stopping
surprise	tweets	Should I say goodnight or good morning?
surprise	tweets	hmmm i neeeddd foooddd  nd is looking forward 2 playing with the puppy 2 day nd seeing lewishhh
joy	tweets	has just joined the twitter community
joy	tweets	#SanctuarySunday awesome news about the Leo Awards for Sanctuary, looks like they got 4 out of the 10 they were nomintated for, not bad!
joy	tweets	just had the first lie-in in months  it was great. now for mooching about the house
joy	tweets	can't wait to make that call tomorrow. gotta keep moving forward!
joy	tweets	@hypnophil  it's looking bright, so I think the sun will put in an appearance, and then guess what - lawn wants cutting !!
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wssx - Don't be cross. Just jamming.  X
joy	tweets	@ThetaHealerMaya u're welcome...thank YOU for sharing such excellent content
joy	tweets	@RocknRollQueene @Loretta_aston Welcome to Twitter! Let me know if you have any questions, would love to help.
joy	tweets	aw taxi man is going fast just for meee
joy	tweets	@ruthieor THANKS!
joy	tweets	As of today, @Peek_a_Bo0 and I have been going out for two years. Best two years ever
joy	tweets	Enjoying my Mommy Day!!!!
joy	tweets	watching finding nemo with my nephew so cute!
joy	tweets	is up for lots of revision today and then out toniight
joy	tweets	@megatronnn Drinking alone after working til 10 PM can be relaxing, or made better by adding one fun person to laugh with.
joy	tweets	@MyAppleStuff oh he is so cute... is he in uniteddogs.com? Poppy is there
joy	tweets	@redheadlori Happy Mothers Day!
joy	tweets	uploading photos to myspace from musical i was just in
joy	tweets	@officialTila tilaaa just make you feel so special  haha haters now days
joy	tweets	Weetabix and Choco milk  Yum!
joy	tweets	Jogged in the forest with Nina. Heavy wind reminded I need to set up some turbines: free electricity.
joy	tweets	@jenifel Aww thanks! I am indeed graduating on Friday. Just 4 finals stand between me and freedom...or Teach for America and law school
joy	tweets	Pegel..cape ya keliling kuil..but,totally awesome!was amazed by the temple,culture,ambience..truly amazing thailand
joy	tweets	Finally home after a big of travelling!! ahhhhhh now time to realx!!
joy	tweets	Toast in the morning
surprise	tweets	@bunnyc saw it too..hmmm, she's sexy, nice twins
surprise	tweets	@UniqueGuitarist ment to be doing hw but not going to happen!!! Ill pray for tia!  Rose is in the shower so sh.. http://bit.ly/VMv6U
joy	tweets	so this my last week of school then finals yesss
joy	tweets	@mileycyrus i think it's fun, you gotta hide, and defend from your enemy, fun huh?
surprise	tweets	@phon Or should I say, ROL!
joy	tweets	@jonbongato haha it will be interesting haha
joy	tweets	Hmm... It's my birthday tomorrow... Fun!
joy	tweets	@Ganga108 my pleasure, its a great recipe
joy	tweets	@McGiff Thanks for sharing that
joy	tweets	Woo hoo.  Sun outside might be able to get some sunset shots tonight...  fingers crossed!!!!
joy	tweets	@sexysapphire Thanks, I love it
joy	tweets	It's raining cats and dogs in Gda?sk today , looks nice 'though through a window
joy	tweets	@kiwi_from_hell @sporkess how's monday for you?
joy	tweets	@purdyboy thank you! i was just playing that a moment ago, actually! a very different, even more chill version.  *spooky*! haha.
joy	tweets	@kjarrett Thanks for tweeting a very useful set of refs - I'm in the middle of adding them to a chapter I'm editing
joy	tweets	In about 2 hours from now i will find out how good the STAR TREK Film from J.J. really is. A Ticket costs 9 Euro and i hope its worth it
joy	tweets	my first moms day as a mom  now im off to long island to see my mommy  &lt;33 HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!!
joy	tweets	Buongiorno !!! woke up and of for my Italian lunch
joy	tweets	Enjoying &quot;Gears of War&quot; on my PC ! This game is really gooooood
surprise	tweets	@gfalcone601  im sooo excited!!
joy	tweets	Mother's Day breakfast is over, getting back to work now. Back on Rails
joy	tweets	Hour til lunch, can't wait. Ima go to Mcd's
surprise	tweets	He hated my writing, so I made him my academic adviser.
joy	tweets	@nick_ebru thank you for the link...very cool...see you on monday!!!
joy	tweets	OMG I FINISHED MY HISTORY CHILDRENS BOOK!!!! JUST NEED 2 MAKE IT PRETTY AND PRINT IT OFF AND IM DONE!!! WHOO!!!
surprise	tweets	@tinchystryder I'm going big weekend  cant wait to see u! x
joy	tweets	enjoyed yesterday Star Trek. Awesome movie! With great actors - I prefer Karl Urban as Dr. Leonard &quot;Bones&quot; McCoy  Live long and prosper!!
joy	tweets	@dorothyjburt very well, nothing flash - but different to chocolate 4 a change. good 2 meet U yesterday  gr8 atmosphere &amp; discussion
joy	tweets	@Joshwaleigh    i did on my walk home. it looks amazing
joy	tweets	@cssglobe thanks Alen, it seems that we can only submit community news, is this an error, or must we prove ourselves
joy	tweets	@monabarry yeah whatever, so that means he was chatting about me all night then, lol
joy	tweets	Good morning!! It's 12:00, I think it's time for breakfast!!
joy	tweets	@aditya page genny to rescue you
joy	tweets	@StevieWynn good morning. How is my favourite pcso today?
joy	tweets	[Sarah Mcglaclan song in background] Please donate to jpnnbak' fund of &quot;Dinero for the cable bill&quot; think of how you will make her
joy	tweets	First sleep then spending the day with mom since it's mothers day and all. There might even be Chinese.
joy	tweets	is back...been feeling ill and extremely busy all week. happy mother's day, to all you mama's out there
joy	tweets	Lady Gaga - Poker face (acoustic)  is really really good, she really can sing
joy	tweets	Had a good time out , now I must sleep lol. Gym &amp; dance rehearsals in like 5 hours,
joy	tweets	@mattcampagna You know, your updates are really amusing.  How was the prop auction?How much did that baseship bed go for?
joy	tweets	@GayAdoptionDad please do  I'll settle for cheap cider for meeting deadline. Have you seen our new blog at www.havealovelytime.com?
joy	tweets	@GGEastLDN im cool  cant wait to hear these stories xoxo
joy	tweets	Good morning all! Its a fabulous morning here!
joy	tweets	@sassij That's good to hear - morning
joy	tweets	time to do some revision while listening to @direngrey albums non-stop all day, again!
joy	tweets	my mum was really happy about her pretty small present^^ oh wow tomorrow we can test one of her presents: one of the pasta recepies
joy	tweets	Surveying my NEW LAWN from the upstairs window!
joy	tweets	going to watch a dvd with hubby,'Eagle Eye', twit u all 2morrow, cia
joy	tweets	@LittleFletcher I saw the play of it here, it was amazing
joy	tweets	2 days till birthday! I just hope the weathers good!! And it best be good on thursday and friday! Otherwise il scream! happy b'day keiron
joy	tweets	Singing along to MyChem.
joy	tweets	@JennaIsWriting You've got a deal!
joy	tweets	@b50 heheh ....qualifying was pretty exciting tho  ..
joy	tweets	is Chillin', listening to Tunes
joy	tweets	Hanging out at cousin's house, getting a manicure and pedicure.  Then off for some beauty sleep...
surprise	tweets	@curiousmike Maybe until Wednesday?
joy	tweets	http://skipall.com/8p.png  The come apart easy enough
joy	tweets	@KimmiMcFly i think it starts at  7.30 with that david archuleta  i might just throw glitter all over myself aha xx
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4qfl3 - haha^^ I love it
joy	tweets	@HairBoutique Thanks, btw which men's hairstyles are in right now? I'm growing my hair long  anyway hope you are having a good weekend!
joy	tweets	haha gunna go buy a whole bunch of emo/punk clothes
joy	tweets	@SabrinaNorris they were lushh wernt they, i managed to keep up to lol aww they were amazing  xxx
joy	tweets	I meditate, I feel I am vast, very vast.  do you know it?what do you think about?
joy	tweets	@alucinari Moral support for students
joy	tweets	learning to play guitar is one of the best things I have done out of boredom
surprise	tweets	I have just read up on lactose stuff and I CAN EAT HARD CHEESE!!! There is no lactose in it!!! *Jumps of Joy this rainy day* YAY!!!!
joy	tweets	Hope all the mums out there had a wonderful day    my kids know me, I got a game for my DS and weights for my wii fit... woo hooo
joy	tweets	Wake up x.x But tired. On this moment i listing some music for make me happy and let me wake up
joy	tweets	busy exam week coming up! always look on the bright side of life  *whistle*
joy	tweets	@rssanborn true, depends on the couple  Personally we've found adding more has increased the fun &amp; increased our bond
joy	tweets	ahhhaaaaa is gunna get straight back on it!
joy	tweets	@skdev I left that for people to complete
joy	tweets	flu or allergy??? ... Doesn't matter, just try to squeeze my Sundayyyy
joy	tweets	Is listening to Prima j - rockstar so dang catchyy
joy	tweets	Picked up a Jesse Lacey/Kevin Devine/Grace Read bootleg off the net from their acoustic tour, it's really good
surprise	tweets	@DrRus You too, Rus!
joy	tweets	@RollinsWallace hahaha, as cartoon mascots go, the virl.com monster has some very nice details... a good shadow + realistic tonsils.
joy	tweets	@miraihl Sounds like you're in for a great day!  Enjoy
joy	tweets	off to westend now, enjoying the sun.
surprise	tweets	@Hatz94Music HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!  Tell ur mom that's she an awesome madre &amp; such a great example to the Archuleta familia!!
joy	tweets	Good morning Tweeple of the sun! What you all up to?
joy	tweets	happy mothers day to all the yummy mummies on twitter
joy	tweets	OK. Done with Sunday morning findings. Time to enjoy the sunny day
joy	tweets	Sitting on my sunny balcony and learning for the Dutch exam
joy	tweets	Up at 6am on Sunday... Going to meet my mom for breakfast at the beach!
joy	tweets	@TheSimsHub I'm going to kill the person who should have went down to Manchester for me.  (only kidding; don't want the police on my door)
surprise	tweets	? American Pie FOREVER. I'm watching it right now. They're running naked around on the Streets! Would you do that? I would  [ NOT ]
joy	tweets	@Orli @Snapily you are now famous in Houston, take a look  http://is.gd/ysAh
surprise	tweets	@SerbIaNGoDdesS Hmm Ok next time i see you il just get you to explain to me the whole process  haha
joy	tweets	Good Morning Everyone
joy	tweets	Enjoyed the new Star Trek movie last night.  I want to see it again!    Up and ready to work... on SUNDAY!  BLAH!
joy	tweets	Senior ball was hella fun!!!  good night!!!
surprise	tweets	@Patty_B You didn't see everyone going on about it on Facebook about 3 months ago?
joy	tweets	@danielradcliffe Nice to see you tweeting!  It's Sunday 10th May and we're celebrating Mother's Day here today. So be nice to yer Mom
joy	tweets	Just got home from another wonderful night
joy	tweets	@devyra haha i love both of them too  hmm.. lol i'm in need of some good bands too
joy	tweets	@NYBabe No ways. If you can nab a youngster, go for it! My best friend swears by younger men - apparantly they can go for longer too!
joy	tweets	just made a South-Korean email pal. Happy!
joy	tweets	Happy mother's day to all moms!
joy	tweets	@dannymasterson the honesty's to much...........  Sorry couldn't resist;)
joy	tweets	Nighty night, ya'll!    Tweet Dreams!
joy	tweets	Good Morning! Looking Forward To Listening To THE PRODIGY On Radio 1 Big Weekend.  Brought Their Album Yesterday!! =P AMAIZE Tbqh. x
joy	tweets	good morning  finally a day of sunshine for my summer hol!  away to watch the footie in the sun  x
joy	tweets	in Singapore! its so warm over here! Having a blast already
joy	tweets	Star Trek.. Did not disappoint!  5 star!!
joy	tweets	changed my picture on my profile in friendster
joy	tweets	Hello everyone im just sitting here rocking out to 9412 sam on the air The best classic rock station on twitter here
joy	tweets	@LeoWolfe Haha! Night man, and no, but Im sure I'll meet her again in my lifetime, in fact I will...no doubt about it.
joy	tweets	ok all, bedtime for this bonzo! i just got done with my math homework and my brain is done for the day. Nite nite  have a great day!
joy	tweets	support @jessicastrust trust and honor all your moms!  support #matternal health. happy moms day:  http://bit.ly/Bpekk
joy	tweets	Just like the old days  drinkin at the old spot .
joy	tweets	@cydonian why? i enjoy fancy meals on my own smtimes, thr's joy in solitude, u can REALLY enjoy the food &amp; it's lk a date with the world
joy	tweets	hmmm dollhouse sounds pretty good, http://bit.ly/z3aZv  i think ima download it and try watching it
surprise	tweets	William@sharon_williams I have the mike and everything if that is what you mean  This is all so new to me lol
joy	tweets	@beautyholic woohoooo ;) to BOTH! retail therapy and surprise visits  two things i love.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wt8a - pretty damn good friday night
joy	tweets	Just got home from another amazing night
joy	tweets	last sunday before going home!
joy	tweets	Gloomy day can't stop my bliss.  I hope Ronaldo will score in derby match today.
joy	tweets	@wow_its_sarah Congrats Sarah!!!!! thats awsum
joy	tweets	ok peeps have good morning I'm going to bed   @ClickedApps hit me up later
joy	tweets	@11hunabku11 Swine Flu victims unite  http://oinkflu.info
joy	tweets	@dahntay OMG that dunk on Dampier was MASSIVE! Big ups!!! Love it...
joy	tweets	partying in the study room
joy	tweets	@junebugshhh life is funny and ironic at the same time isn't it?
surprise	tweets	@LydiaStack yeah exactly the fans overpower the haters anyday u know wat do wat u wnt i dnt even care anymore i know the truth about them
joy	tweets	On the way to see my grandparents
joy	tweets	@RobM67 I just retweeted your jesus post as it made me laugh... don't worry, wasn't a subliminal code
joy	tweets	Just taking my dad in law for a Sunday stroll down Old Leigh  a beautiful morning, say Hi to Morris LOL  http://twitpic.com/4wt8k
surprise	tweets	is hopeful!
joy	tweets	Hurray for old friends with beer and lady friends!!!!
joy	tweets	hope schools gonna be good tomorrow
joy	tweets	@BrookeAmanda YEP  it'll be awesome to the max =] haha
joy	tweets	Went to a Muslim marriage for the first time in my life. Came back with my stomach full of tasty briyani. Really like it very much.
joy	tweets	@mrated Yeehah, quality
joy	tweets	finishing off a quick magazine article for CAP, can't wait to get it done and get back to the book
surprise	tweets	Me just sign up Twitter...
joy	tweets	@paigeebaby hahahah lols you have fun with that aye  i had the div too ) the experience but i love my spongebob ) (L)
surprise	tweets	@katieinthehat The one and the same! Should be a good gig
joy	tweets	Hey, hey, happy mother's day!  http://plurk.com/p/svwii
joy	tweets	had an awesome time with @spotspot85 and @xerovoltage
joy	tweets	Yummy, 2 tacos at Jack In the Box
joy	tweets	@quicheismadness  thanks for following!  pretty complicated id you have there lol
joy	tweets	Great exercise for a Sunday morning: &quot;stopping the wheel of karma&quot; (R.A.W.) and transforming negativity into love... Life!
joy	tweets	@howie_d  I'm really happy for u n leigh  thnx for sharing this happiness with us, this means the world to us all!  love ya! Marta
joy	tweets	Up,dressed, and out the house for 11 am on a Sunday. Off to see the fishy fishys
disgust	tweets	@carlysmum lol takes some getting use to  Just replying to your email. Power keeps cutting out here :S
joy	tweets	@skeetonmytwitts its slimy but its fun
joy	tweets	I am currently doing a few posts on my business blog http://venturefile.com  check it out if you like it
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day
surprise	tweets	Just got home  interesting night
joy	tweets	@kyoisorange ok ermm I'll meet you in the gym at half four then
disgust	tweets	@lovely_sara I'm sitting in the bus to dublin And listen tokio hotel-reden.And i must laugh.you know why
joy	tweets	@jmlares ...actually find something they'll like. it's easy to get a good gift with a lot of money tbh. nowhere near as personal though
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY MOMMY!!!!
joy	tweets	Good morning to the world. Hope everyone is ok
joy	tweets	Lan Poker is so much fun!!!!  Someone help me remember ki compre chal raha hai abhi!!!!
joy	tweets	@enfant_terrible haha, that was new  the fact that he couldn't do it should have cost his part. What kind of Spock is that!
joy	tweets	@Elliot79 I don't think I can bear such cuteness this early in the day! Kudos to Fair Empress
surprise	tweets	@alancarolino whaaaat?! New section to La Cantera?? That has #UrbanOutfitters?! OH MAN I'm stoked to get back to Texas
joy	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
joy	tweets	has just discovered a great site!
joy	tweets	it's nice to see my #euruko pictures (http://twurl.cc/xd1) on the big screen during a conference break
joy	tweets	I'm eating and chatting on my computer.. Really bored! -_- I think I'm going to have some tea, HAHA.  Listning to 80's music! WOOHO &lt;3
joy	tweets	@vixx1983 haha so the whole worlds there then lol
surprise	tweets	home from STING..crunk (of course)..long ass day N nite..also, visited my boy Rob V..all is good..happy mother's day!!..word to yo mutha
joy	tweets	On the home stretch now, by Friday night I'll be piss drunk and finished my exams!
joy	tweets	@chasepino ur funny  gnight
joy	tweets	@_anh Hmm, tasty!  Going to have curry rice with peas probably. ;)
joy	tweets	alright, rawknroll.net live on radio23.org - next 2 hours of vivid spring to summer music  rawk on and enjoy!
joy	tweets	@caromans Would applaud self-validation for all sorts of good theological, psychological &amp; sociological reasons. But agree - lighten up!
joy	tweets	Just found out I'll be a Food Engineer in a future life. Cool. *iPhone app called Afterlife
joy	tweets	going shopping with my mammyy.... my makeup and face are being generally quite nice to me today
joy	tweets	@CeeCeeJayez episode 17 season 1, i love chuck bass.  who's going to the short stack filming next sat? Im making a flag. ;D
joy	tweets	likes heavenly blushhhh
joy	tweets	@SherriEShepherd Hey Sherri! Thanx 4 da messages Wondering if u could follow me? Plzzzz
joy	tweets	@f2point4 oh, that is very nice!! I will do something nice next week ~ going to Madrid next weekend for few days
joy	tweets	@rudedoodle thankyou
joy	tweets	Almost ready to leave the house to head to WTHR!
surprise	tweets	Off to go B&amp;Q for new outdoor furniture
joy	tweets	Good morning, to all the mommies happy mothers day.  Now I am off the pull the cats tail.  I know she likes it
joy	tweets	@AndreaKoeln I listen it right now - so much fun!!!  No I just have to get it somehow
joy	tweets	summer clothes panic over..I see rain clouds !!  still going swimming though..I'm feeling in a holiday mood
joy	tweets	@sruthykumar hahaha totally  yaayy i don't feel so alone on twitter
joy	tweets	@itsonlywords You're welcome!
joy	tweets	@pntbtrkisses a midwest girl, lol....so close and yet so far
joy	tweets	my miss doesn't read my tweets so she wouldn't know that the emo guy won #dsds
joy	tweets	@CandyWWGM well, as i mother &amp; grandma i am a bit in a kidding mode
joy	tweets	Made it home..Night my twitties
joy	tweets	finally home  crazy party 2nite! thanks @jacksterlope 4 driving me home!
surprise	tweets	@bradiewebbstack Bradiee  may I ask why your picture is a cat?? haha ily xx
joy	tweets	@ecjulie You're welcome...
joy	tweets	is very shocked and feeling sick... but happy all the same
joy	tweets	like why the fuck am i still up...maybe because im drunk as hell and had a great time tonight..shit was crazy
joy	tweets	AmmoxXx great day? Woman, did you NOTICE the smile that never disappeared off my face? Ha, Murray... All cos of you, I owe you
joy	tweets	I wish  I could choose what bands played trash on june 20th...hmmm!!!
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the American mamas!
surprise	tweets	meet the robbinsons! best movie ever
joy	tweets	just installed Windows 7 RC, so far no mushroom cloud yet.
surprise	tweets	@__Parasite__ haha im always turned off by coontails...so it kinda kills me XD i like the spikes though
joy	tweets	My Rishloves make me smile: @rishlooband ...
surprise	tweets	@_sarahwilson_ Absolutely love your hair and outfit in tonight's ep
joy	tweets	@ROAR_Fear_Me Doing very well thank you very much - spending a lot of time behind the PC but with a focus and determination
joy	tweets	@aanneeB ok  i kinda thought so... i mean those 2? ... it would be funny though.
joy	tweets	Hoedown throwdown- all I can say is... I'm getting there!
surprise	tweets	had an amazing time dancing to DJ Dan at Ruby Skye tonight. And I'm still looking for that roommate in SF if you know anybody!
joy	tweets	@TheLakersNation Game 3 today. Oh YA.
surprise	tweets	@duskyblueskies I am pretty sure that's the sort if tweeting that will lose followers. But stuff it- it was well worth it
surprise	tweets	Awake. And my head hurts. Which probably means last night was a good one
joy	tweets	Good morning! Driving to work
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wtii - new hair going to greeattt use!
joy	tweets	@MikeyNEF mmmm... looks so yummy! good seeing u
joy	tweets	YES! I DONE IT! at last.  my homework is ready dx and i can go waaalkiiing because the sun is shining ^^ oh yeah.
disgust	tweets	@astrylnaut yeah talking to you was too boring
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day !
joy	tweets	Good morning everybody !!
joy	tweets	@decadentdecay Chica! Two more days!  I want the US Elle too.
joy	tweets	@LucyKD lmao, im only joking mate
joy	tweets	Thanks all for coming out tonight, hope ya had fun!
joy	tweets	Oh, I've just watched the third episode of JONAS, it's awesome.
joy	tweets	@Boothamshaw i dont really know..i saw it on the gadget show about something thatmakes messages easier to find or something thank you
joy	tweets	Off to have a sumptuous Mexican meal!
joy	tweets	@davidleibrandt good to know you had fun
surprise	tweets	@jmlares Awake. Suprisingly. Couldn't get to sleep last night so gave up and pulled an all-nighter.  How are you?
surprise	tweets	@vanwau Ooh really?!! Well you know you're always welcome!!
joy	tweets	derby day! woooo, come on UNITED!
joy	tweets	Completely EXCELLENT Dave Matthews concert! Jason Mraz opened &amp; I heard &quot;stay or leave&quot; &amp; &quot;crush&quot; for the first time live
surprise	tweets	Methinks it's time to read A Doll's House + Streetcar and get some quotes, and then PHYSICS!
joy	tweets	early morning golf on a sunny day
joy	tweets	@ManBag79 awww I love me some charlies  we are enjoying some lucky food LOL
joy	tweets	mozart's requiem!
joy	tweets	@mopedronin come to kyoto  weather is great here
joy	tweets	couldn't resist ? http://blip.fm/~5z7v3
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!!!!
joy	tweets	HALLELUJAH! I've finally finished my Careers assignment! The feeling of finishing a task is great, you have no idea. Or maybe you do. lol
joy	tweets	&quot;Viewers of my LinkedIn profiel also viewed Barack Obama, Francisco van Jole and Erwin Blom.&quot; I'm in good company.
joy	tweets	I can Rome without Ceasar
joy	tweets	@MissxMarisa hahaha, it's *massive* compared to the others!! you're so sweet Scenie
joy	tweets	@horcrux01 happy bday!
joy	tweets	@Swedish_em I'm ok I guess. talking to - biiip - right now, or..on sms. haha well, how are you?
joy	tweets	@ansje_44 Thanks!! It was a bit out of my comfort zone but it was fun
joy	tweets	Just funny sitting here with external keyboard, mouse, and macbook on bed  just looks strange but it's comfortable
joy	tweets	@Nemitabbah HAHAHAHA...yeah you mess up that crossing and kneeling bit you will get called out...JOKING
joy	tweets	@moodleman somehow I am going to have to figure out how to come to Sydney one day
surprise	tweets	@bowrainbow at Le mont's door ..it's closed maybe they are too rich  passed pairung as well
joy	tweets	@MandyBookLover Same here, having a nice, quiet Sunday
joy	tweets	Had a great night, ashleigh makes a good dance teacher  And we kicked Bens butt at a pillow fight!
joy	tweets	@marthinnayoan Ahahaha... thanks bro. Will do. I might take the day off tomorrow
joy	tweets	ahh, juz got a new Rapidshare account that lasts till Oct 09. 10gb download limit daily
joy	tweets	@simonemaynard thank you
joy	tweets	Enjoying a great buffet brunch at Friends &amp; Bachus on St. Marks Road. The food, service &amp; ambience get a 4.0/5.0 Definitely coming back
joy	tweets	yeah .... just bought tickets for Pearl Jam in August
surprise	tweets	@Lindsayslifee goodmornin  as soon as i saw ur pic, it reminded me how embarresing it was yesterday. with oliver&amp;peter. it was fun tho xD
surprise	tweets	Is eating BBQ Jalapeno Torta Subway from Los Chaparros right next door..
joy	tweets	Ooh I have snazzed up my profile with summery colors
joy	tweets	@urfavoritegrl i'm sure you're sleeping, but you'll have to tell me your favorite part tomorrow. i laughed pretty much the whole time.
surprise	tweets	i had a new friend who called himself shame.
surprise	tweets	@tferriss That's very funny.  Cute kids.
joy	tweets	going to program now  haven't programmed for a long time now
surprise	tweets	@hihat7 Go to main settings page for iPhone and scroll down - you will see it
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all my fellow mums - have a great day - mine will be spent in my garden with all of my family
joy	tweets	@andrew1913 theme tune? Your robin I'm BATMAN!
joy	tweets	@pretentiousgit what a cute dog
joy	tweets	try to play John Travolta's &quot;Grease Lightning&quot; bassline.. it's cool
joy	tweets	@hollymcombsbr somehow i cant reply to your message LOL and yes i know  Thank youuu
joy	tweets	Umm. What do we have here? Apple pie, check. Cupcakes, check. Green tea, check. Coffee, check. Then we're ready for tea time
joy	tweets	@DannehOak hey there! your web URL looks good
joy	tweets	our south style exhibition is on in less than a week  member fresh gallery otara!
joy	tweets	Did it!!  back in pakistan! - http://bkite.com/07kBP
joy	tweets	@chriscuzzy ...Now I'm going back to bed. LOL. Enjoy your time at the gym. I'll be sleeping.
joy	tweets	@HelloLizzi oh hahah thats ok then
joy	tweets	Just watched Camp Rock  Eating raspberry ripple icecream. Awesome
joy	tweets	hmm icecream for breakfast  #springtime
joy	tweets	Signing out for the night - have a good Sunday night all
joy	tweets	I say &quot;oh man..&quot; jovani asks, &quot;did you just call me an old man?&quot; haha
joy	tweets	@jordanknight Please wish your wife Evelyn a Happy Mother's Day for me and tell her I hope that she has a wonderful day. Spoil her today.
joy	tweets	@rehabc give him a gift voucher for something like shoppers' stop or something. that's as good as cash. unless he's immigrating, that is!
joy	tweets	We have tons of updates including pics of Rob from yesterday. Check them out  www.robsessedpattinson.com
surprise	tweets	@Beautiful515  thats awesome!
surprise	tweets	glad I wore my black rats and a flowy shirt im so full from my dozen mixed oystsers seafood platter and death by chocolate
joy	tweets	morning darlin' @DaHilster Hope you're feelin' tip-top  ? http://blip.fm/~5z7zs
joy	tweets	http://pic.gd/fad84c One Sunday night at Helsinki. We hadn't drink anything... xD yeah RIGHT!
joy	tweets	@Vitriol_: &quot;@lordmitchnz  Good evening, kind sir *bows*&quot; ? http://blip.fm/~5z7zv
joy	tweets	@BoltClock oic.. will need to get upgrade space if I do want to use it then.thanks  Will most prob only use photoshop and dreamweaver
joy	tweets	@edsaint lol @ half - I already have a bulky desktop- I'm geared up for super slim and light: SSD performance is unreal
joy	tweets	will do it  in a  couple od days , when I have  more time.,  for  now  I   need to  get some sleep. Night Night  All.  Peace.!!!!
joy	tweets	@cybercabz i'll take a lookie, sound great
joy	tweets	Seeing 'Love at the Club' actually made me
joy	tweets	@aussiecynic haha better drunken tweeting you mean?
surprise	tweets	just found out that i'm a robot
joy	tweets	@aussieboby i like it    #masterchef
joy	tweets	@sevenspiral no worries, good news are good to spread
surprise	tweets	Just read a book called &quot;Gamer Girl&quot; and it wasn't too bad.
joy	tweets	morning im up and ready weeee its a sunday
joy	tweets	@therealjspace *bows* glad to be of service
joy	tweets	@tessajames01 cool i wear black most of the time when i go out
joy	tweets	@Jo3ll3 going to bed for real this time. Have a good day
joy	tweets	I want to play audition with Anna ~ -mHc-SMOOCH
joy	tweets	goin to watch some friends DVD's
joy	tweets	happy mothers day to all moms out there!!
joy	tweets	Just finished my 1st new song !!!  Soon on Youtube !  Keeping you updated !
joy	tweets	Hahahahaha i rember when i riped that william picture out of one of claires mags. I beated zoe to it
joy	tweets	@freshypanda haha drunk golf sounds *awesome*!! i predict a great score for today
joy	tweets	@headgeek666 watched the standard dvd 3d version, no blu in UK yet, 3d effect was best I have seen on home system yet, titties in 3d
joy	tweets	did ice skating last show part this morning. Mozart. awesome, can't wait to do it Friday and saturday. love U all
joy	tweets	Filming the very last scene of Afflicted - then it's on to sound design... soon! soon!
joy	tweets	done with the fkn exam! n just bought the mothers day gift, finally... tada! the new prada fragrance  going to meet up mum n fam now : ...
joy	tweets	@Jennifrayne  Thanks for the link, ive voted &amp; i'll send that out too.
joy	tweets	@Lindsayslifee they look nice atleast  haha. &lt;3
joy	tweets	On twikini while enjoying the sun
surprise	tweets	@DebbieFletcher If you come to a gig in Dublin you can be my dancing partner.  whatcha think? Hehe xxx
joy	tweets	I PUT A SHELF UP lol im well proud and yes its my twilight shelf  my books the movies going on there and obv my prezzie from lara XD (L)
joy	tweets	@hottieann2145 nice to meet ya!
surprise	tweets	@simonusher a bit too early for me and wanting to have nice lunch too... have a good time
joy	tweets	is finishing off related lit during PlanSem break  http://plurk.com/p/sw05s
joy	tweets	@Tor87 it's an awesome book, can't wait for the film - enjoy and don't be scared  x
joy	tweets	off to JFK (again), should be in texas soon.
joy	tweets	Going to take it quite easy today actually. Yesterday was great but it took a lot of energy out of me. Going out for some pirating later.
joy	tweets	Hopefully going back to work tomorrow!! tired of having a flu.. Beside, I love working with the children, so fun to play with!!
joy	tweets	@pkollar very heart-warming indeed. I'll be looking forward to that day
joy	tweets	Good Morning Tweets, I like lazy sundays
surprise	tweets	walking the dog on horseforth park, no hangover on a Sunday morning, yay!!
joy	tweets	@jaderibeiro lol event management. no prerequisites
joy	tweets	just finish clean up my computer/guest room's cupboard! my stuffs
joy	tweets	@kellieann1 haha hi mum! wow yes, very modern of you. now you just need to get a facebook account! p.s. talk to me by writing @mattcaplin
joy	tweets	Always thinking about to look for a good place to appericiate everyone who supports me on every site I joined
joy	tweets	Early lunch then getting all dressed up for Amy's confirmation
joy	tweets	Is playing bubblewrap on her iPhone. Over and over and over again. Still, beats working...
joy	tweets	hi @blowmefool thanks for the follow  good luck with your friend? ha
joy	tweets	@macel_erika oh oh! that's a nice song!  yeah! You ain nuttin budda hawndog!
joy	tweets	Who's going out tonight? I want to go out  xxx
joy	tweets	Done... with the #run : 14.5km / 1h33mn / 153bpm . Feeling great, no fatigue... and no speed
joy	tweets	@jazz_machine lol - Good evening/morning/day (just to catch everything!) to you too!
joy	tweets	Had a great weekend with One, hanging with Nick &amp; Brendon, church this morning! Can't believe Loretta won the Mothers Day raffle again!
joy	tweets	Finally home and ready for bed!  night!
joy	tweets	@BryonyCatrin hey hey, some else has twitter!
joy	tweets	John john and I just switched the meaning of PIMP to someone who still pwns at halo when they're wasted  hahahaha Another amazing night
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wu0a - Sunny day at vivocity, yupz just showered.. Runs into airconditioned mall..
joy	tweets	Next movies for me : Terminator Salvation and Transformers 2, gonna be a meka spring this year
joy	tweets	finished essay. dinner went well me and my brother acted like kids and had spoon fight  then fought over who woould sit in my sisters lap
joy	tweets	Had an amazing night with my favorite lady friend
joy	tweets	@shamim86 Cool!!! No wonder you didn't sleep much
joy	tweets	GETTING A PUPPYYY!!!!  What should I name him? I think Romeo is cute.
joy	tweets	Having a (Y) weekend with Karen. Off to Swansea today
joy	tweets	@Fooddesigner good luck in the pressure test! don't worry everything will be great  #masterchef
joy	tweets	@Reemski Might be a while before I get around to it. Not sure if I will make it flat out in HTML or through WordPress. .. Fun fun fun
joy	tweets	@sosolid2k turtles and shoes make an awesome couple  if only shoes could talk back to the turtle :p lol
joy	tweets	On way to the wimbledon with @sweezle to watch star trek, IMAX baby
joy	tweets	just got home.
joy	tweets	i am fucked...damn you lucas at your czech republic beer that tastes like heaven in a bottle!! Your amazing
joy	tweets	Time to turn the phone off and get a full nights sleep
surprise	tweets	Rove  going to be cut short though to wash my hair so I can watch Family Guy and Harpers Island
joy	tweets	Off to finish the book &quot;nudge&quot; then going to write some
joy	tweets	I FOUND A PROM DRESS
joy	tweets	Today I'm working on my &quot;Quirky Q&quot; cue or maybe it will become a concerto
joy	tweets	@paigeebaby HAHHA yeahh  like SS on ellen xDD
joy	tweets	@solkana I want to see &quot;Too Fast to Transport in 60 seconds&quot;
joy	tweets	Hello all my new followers, there is suddenly a lot of you, so will take a little time to get round to you all
joy	tweets	my head feels sooooooooooo much better
joy	tweets	@comedian cafe, sky dining plangi  http://plurk.com/p/sw17j
surprise	tweets	@officialdrake Pfft. FAN THIS *helicopters imaginary penis* ....  HI DRAKE! WELCOME TO THE REAL WORLD!!!
surprise	tweets	@Brandesme No this is not redirects, this is just updating posts on our website massage.dk .. next item =&gt; publish, next item =&gt; pulish
surprise	tweets	@junoluvsu OMG that's right HAHAHA I'm Stupid
joy	tweets	@ashleytisdale http://twitpic.com/3a5ho - hahaha ily ashley u'r like the best in the world
joy	tweets	Cleaning all day today after he runs off to do his stuff and setting my schedule for the week.  I feel much better now and calmer too!
joy	tweets	@who_the_heck Haha LOL @ the english work they doo in college
joy	tweets	@samanthadepanta Doing really well! I will stay here as long as is needed!  So you can definitely come and visit me!! Look forward too ...
joy	tweets	beats the heat with cool guava juice in handi water
joy	tweets	@sarahteaa good girl, sarah. now we've got ourselves a club
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all that are, all that are trying, and all that haven't nailed their teenagers to a tree
joy	tweets	@aphrodaisy Thanks!   I'm making homemade lasagna for my mum today.
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wua7 - I can't wait to see them!
joy	tweets	@jason_2008 lol oh dnt worry u'l be able to squeeze it soon enough!! Hope you have a good day today!
surprise	tweets	18.42 recalling the events of a great wk/end - Star Trek movie is fantastic, Zach Quinto is hot! Study, shopping&amp;dinner, life is perfect
joy	tweets	@SusanCosmos @speakgirl Thx 4 sharing!
surprise	tweets	Keep forgetting we only need to revise one topic for the 116 exam! It's a nice surprise every time I remember though
joy	tweets	All in all, a good weekend
joy	tweets	Law week is gonna go the fuck off  SO EXCITED
joy	tweets	Getting somewhere with my first &quot;real&quot; KiokuDB and catalyst app, yay
joy	tweets	mcfly gig last nightt omg it was amazin didnt sit down through the whole thing  mcfly did you see me and ma best mate we were in tutus
surprise	tweets	@llJessicall What did you get?  My day is alright.. haven't done anything yet. leaving soon to my stepsister though!
joy	tweets	@robinmatthewfry thats great I'll make sure I get a copy
joy	tweets	Yeah, let's build an app #euruko
joy	tweets	#SanctuarySunday fav character @pegasusangel has to be Ashley!  Why? cause she's awesome
joy	tweets	my girlfriend still likes sesame st, and so do I
joy	tweets	@Rebeckela that is no problem, i know you will win with the butt kicking as i can see into the future,,, its your destiny.. jaiho
joy	tweets	is off to RENT soon  Hope I can get home tonight though with all the train problems :s ...
joy	tweets	@sammihouse  awww lol yh it is worth it-  mcfly are worth it 2  eekk
surprise	tweets	@ksymmonds @lcaller Sorry to have missed it. Yes, I'm a lazy bastard  Up, but still not dressed
joy	tweets	Listening to the new Green Day album  Fingers crossed!
surprise	tweets	@PsychicRadio Thabks! This made me feel very special!
joy	tweets	So, I finally got my but on Twitter. Let's hope I make good use of this site
joy	tweets	@travelrants that's cool, I'd be happy to contribute to any future articles. Enjoy the rest of the weekend
surprise	tweets	Round and Round the Garden: The amazing thing is that he's still talking to me!  http://rly.cc/JNFwN
joy	tweets	Proudly watching my film  http://bit.ly/dP2Uh
joy	tweets	Migrating a Sybase ASE SPARC Sun Solaris based into a Solaris x86 based. That should be fun
joy	tweets	gets sumthin special, but i want more. akankah suatu hari ku kan mendapatkannya...? only GOD knows...
joy	tweets	Just finnished my Double Cheeseburger. It was good  Ready to watch the Spanish F1
joy	tweets	Yay, a live demo of Rhodes. Loving this more and more  #euruko
surprise	tweets	@familyguyonline thanks for following !
surprise	tweets	@andistancu Un mesaj de eroare: ForbiddenYou don't have permission to access /photo/3180758.jpg on this server. Am ghicit?
joy	tweets	@Sweet_Libertine um, glad you enjoyed it...
surprise	tweets	Yesterday was the 1 year anniversary of the best day ever! YAY MCR!!!!
joy	tweets	@ScottRhodie so you liked it. Glad to hear
disgust	tweets	just finished some Sunday cleaning, waiting to read the next chapter of Kiyosaki's book so i can hit a cleaner
surprise	tweets	has finally started his serious revision - has just completed an english BG mock
joy	tweets	Early bird gets the worm.  And in my case, birder gets to witness the carnage.
surprise	tweets	@thebeaddoodler You are welcome  I love cute stuff!
joy	tweets	Collabro w/JPhlip called &quot;California&quot; was another hot one.
joy	tweets	@Jennifalconer I was happy to see on Something For the Weekend that Flight of the Conchords is back on BBC4!
joy	tweets	@brazilianlinda Whoops, totally read that wrong. Ahem. Yes, I am participating in the 10 day may madness. My ebook is up there.
joy	tweets	cleaning day!
joy	tweets	@langfordperry woah in the uk it isn't mothers day werid! I've been watching friends all day helps me revise. Oh and 17 again is awesome
joy	tweets	learn to fly higher...!  http://tinyurl.com/30tools
joy	tweets	just got back from footy, thankgod eagles won
joy	tweets	@MizFitOnline @lance02 Morning!  Happy Mother's Day Miz!!!  Thank you Lance!!!!
surprise	tweets	omg! i didnt even know my friend knew @ijustine !!! lol its a small world
joy	tweets	@GabeHumble tysm but i just made +uploaded one so its okay! but lol im looking thru your pics now  il the just wanna fuck shit up one lmao
joy	tweets	just finished some Sunday cleaning, waiting to read the next chapter of Kiyosaki's book so i can hire a cleaner
joy	tweets	Thinking of summer
joy	tweets	@Jae878 aha thanks Jae
joy	tweets	BOOK NOW &amp; SAVE:SUMMER 2009 * THE AMAZONES VILLAGE SUITES****-CRETE-GREECE! THE BEST PLACE TO BE!
joy	tweets	@frankiemuniz hey there? hope you're all right. Just watching F1 Warm Up for GP Spain!
joy	tweets	work 7 to 4.... happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	Revision continues. Getting so bored and tired. I can't wait to get out and do interesting things. Only a week and half left though
joy	tweets	follow me!
joy	tweets	finally finished my mom's card. took so long getting all the pictures! it looks good though, i'm happy &amp; can't wait til she sees it
joy	tweets	@dalekwidow I'm hearing lots of good things about the new Trek movie. I'll see if my Dad, &quot;a fellow Treky&quot;, would like to see it
surprise	tweets	Just woke up and catching up on the nightly tweets!!
joy	tweets	@ashestoashessn2 Fab, eh?  Feel free to come along for some pre-ep 4 chat and drinks over at Luigi's - http://www.luigis.org.uk tomorrow!
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the beautiful mom's out there  A day to cherish the best women in our lives
joy	tweets	@aneD Well thank you! I'll try and remember to put it somewhere
joy	tweets	Hey mates. I just came home from the beach.  I'm hella tired. It was a 4-hour ride.
joy	tweets	@BlokesLib i look forward to that. if u ever write 5 Things a Misanthrope Must Do to be at Peace w Humanity i'm up for that as well
joy	tweets	@IronLantern Yup. And pulse.im is withstanding the hits so far
joy	tweets	just woke up still in bed  sundays r the shit, its the do nothing day of the week
joy	tweets	Had such a boss night out.
joy	tweets	long night. Sleeping now.
joy	tweets	@usagiii sweet  i should have something new to show you by then, too
joy	tweets	http://tr.im/kXCL 'Immigrant hid passport in pants' What a genius.
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all my favorite moms.
joy	tweets	@looosie Agfest? it was pretty awesome.. loads of people were there lol
joy	tweets	@joechacko thx! i became IBM Master Inventor in 2008. really enjoyed your blog, particularly with the vegan tag
joy	tweets	Had a great talk with Tony this afternoon... we're going to give it another go
joy	tweets	For US tweeps, don't forget to call your mom today...
surprise	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!  @&gt;---&gt;---&gt;--- A rose for YOU!
joy	tweets	@Rebekah_Mcfly how cool will that be  she is so nice!! Bless her=] so what ya upto? Love you (L) XoxoX
joy	tweets	mOod. was way too much fun. lol..  I lOve to dance TEchno !!! &lt;3 ... life.lOve.stress &amp;&amp;. set backs &lt;3 gnite
joy	tweets	feels like warm things
joy	tweets	@halibrahim Europe sounds gr8! Will finish my exam on Teus and then we'll  talk about it
joy	tweets	just woke up, hopefully going to see the Xmen film today?
joy	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all you mom out there
joy	tweets	look up our youtube JessAndNicoleMusic, we are new, leave comments and subscribe  thankyou x
joy	tweets	@marius101 right..  making compromises is what kills us!
joy	tweets	ps liam we're going to look like tools on the train to the city  hopefully we can scare some old people
joy	tweets	3500 downloads for quickpwn 3.0b5 with cydia, Thanks for playing
joy	tweets	Ahh, sunshine.  Just deleted 404 spam emails from 2 days - now off to BBQ in sun  wonderful...
joy	tweets	ah midday - great time for breakfast
joy	tweets	@ashsimpsonwentz http://twitpic.com/2uzx4 - haha, his heads bigger than yours! awwwh, lol
disgust	tweets	@ncreations MBB has been cryopreserved. May return in the future...
joy	tweets	@AbbeyEmm Haha. If you like him, then you should go
joy	tweets	Its a lovely 58 degrees right now at 7am.  amazing. Enjoy melting vegas. :l
joy	tweets	@natburleson nope  husband is golfing &amp; tornado &amp; I are playing. Im so spoiled everyday. esp LAST sunday (tattoo )
joy	tweets	mothers day drama was awesome!
joy	tweets	@astaldoia definitely something with eggs  Yummy
joy	tweets	Yay, I should be able to make it to 700 updates tonight  lame compared to other ppls i know lol
joy	tweets	@bobbinrob SPARKLY PEEN FOR THE WIN! It solves all of life's problems
joy	tweets	@btillo Hehe ! Thanks for your advice  I choose the shoes, only three of them, so hard !!!
joy	tweets	@LennyKravitz - Hey, Lenny, we are waiting you in Bulgaria again soon! The concert last year was... OMG!
joy	tweets	@PeaceDiva Nice! What r ur plans for 2day? Oh n Happy Mothers Day if u happen 2 b a mother
joy	tweets	Sunday morning and i realised im a film snob  as it said on MSN entertainment
joy	tweets	jolly good last night
joy	tweets	My laptop grew speakers. Now I can watch Charlie with the sound on
surprise	tweets	Chillaxing in Hyde park
joy	tweets	@llJessicall SOunds goood!
joy	tweets	@TimmyTenga awesome, I'm looking at sourcing some as well.
joy	tweets	Hellooooooo... Whats the scene people !!!
joy	tweets	And I am off to my sister's to partyyyy!
joy	tweets	.. good morning peoplee  looks like it's going to be a nice day today! better than last week it was raining =(.
joy	tweets	@ksymmonds We can compare horror stories mate LOL
joy	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wukt - We bought Ludi her own rug. Dogs are the best
joy	tweets	More beans on toast for breakie! Gotta clean my room and study for final Cisco exam, then watch #LOST . Can't wait!
joy	tweets	@agoodstein @timknapton what good role models...  i like how yinz think!
joy	tweets	@sarahjpin Good work.I've only just managed to turn my studio on... I envy your productivity
surprise	tweets	@ashsimpsonwentz http://twitpic.com/2sw4v - i love BOTH your hairsss
joy	tweets	@bobby_rey Nah you do it really gradually with PTFE tape. so goes up 0.1 mm at a time. Ive been doing it for years, I love it!  x
joy	tweets	When we got more followers we gonna have a competition.Hope you all look forward !
joy	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! What are you doing for your Mama today?
joy	tweets	Headache is gone,thank god!Time for tea i think
joy	tweets	@sarahhh3 ill call you on my home phone to your home phone    after dinner tho! coz im almost ready to eat, is that ok? xx
joy	tweets	@JohnBirmingham Yay, so the nekkid writing is working then?You keep warm now! Am in awe of the 6k - am always cactus by 5. Good luck
joy	tweets	@mneylon I'm doing an experiement
joy	tweets	why do we even live on this earth ?? i wanna live on mars :|
joy	tweets	@nataliefisher I like the idea of eliminating bludgers and beaters just tackling ppl, makes it nearly as dangerous as book quidditch
surprise	tweets	@rhettroberts I taped them when I was still at school! They look pretty retro now, but the theme song is still recognisable
joy	tweets	@Emmaloid you? hungover? never  I am not hungover &amp; I don't know how. I think it may be my new superpower. Is la Whalen at home? xxx
joy	tweets	@carocat  13:00 is kickoff. The red cars hopefully
joy	tweets	fear crept in but it's already been dismissed. now let me do this thing right, coz this time the feelings are there and it's so different
joy	tweets	Morning all, finally got to stream media from PC to PS3 via wireless router, much easier than using a USB dongle, ah, techy simplicity.
joy	tweets	@timlichfield alreet chap! Have an awesome time! N congrats on it recent results!
joy	tweets	juz donated books/mags 4 charity. Not only do I feel good but it gave me a good workout from all that heavy lifting
joy	tweets	last drops of the thesis... God let it end today.
joy	tweets	@hairrocks happy birthday!
surprise	tweets	twitwoo! i can tweet from my phone
joy	tweets	@CheekyKerri Defo can't wait we will have a nice afternoon and some music
joy	tweets	is playing MYBRUTE!  follow me at: http://yhana09.mybrute.com
surprise	tweets	@MacQuid Oh really?!
joy	tweets	@insteadofdeath this is really helpful,  you swear a lot, i just realized. haha.
joy	tweets	@sadknob OK. Happy to hear that you are feeling fine
joy	tweets	#firefly weekend on SciFi channel  I'm a happy man
joy	tweets	@pinkdaze Yes! That sounds like a great idea. Message me on LJ about it
joy	tweets	Celebrating mother's day with apple pie
joy	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY LADIES!!! Hope you all have a wonderful day.
joy	tweets	@cssglobe hahah, you own lab.hr  I own lab.ba, seems that we think in similar ways
joy	tweets	@halia Smile. Everything worked out.
surprise	tweets	@ethmet Hello  ...hehe yup we sure do ...lovely to 'see' you xx
surprise	tweets	Sensation Ocean of White Portugal: absolutely amazing  Adoreiii!
joy	tweets	[-O] i wish the birthday massacre would come to australia  i think they said they're thinking about it tho.. http://tinyurl.com/p6lfch
joy	tweets	@JOY949 thanks for promoing the show for me in my absence  Glad you liked it. @sealfur and @flipthetape rock!
joy	tweets	@Bitchface91 Well im hving another one today yey
joy	tweets	@irishpixie36 ok Im off to pc world then  x x tweet u later x x lol
surprise	tweets	@MissxMarisa Then I guess that makes me Dot?
joy	tweets	but no, i really do. long exposures with no tripod, not looking through the viewfinder, unfocusing. its great
surprise	tweets	@TwistedHelen her son is 7 and captured it outside...THANK GOD I HAVE A LITTLE GIRL
joy	tweets	@exhilarating haha, not always, just a 2-day-trip, for a friend. But I've been here some times. That's why I know basic Japanese
joy	tweets	@hernameisnicki is it? :O im gonna get that
joy	tweets	Home !! Home @ last !!!!! Time to step outside for some life
joy	tweets	greeting you all a happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	@idibs oh, a really good 1 dude, thx... added
surprise	tweets	OMG!!! am luat examenul la SPSS! Me so happy!
joy	tweets	@AkashaTheKitty I've read about those. They're cool. You should definitely get one
joy	tweets	From Hyderabad Blues 2, on mimicking the American accent: You won't be an ass if you roll your R's.
joy	tweets	@HIstapleface answer my really cool questions
joy	tweets	@ascrivner come over to my place for a cup of tea
joy	tweets	@rasga Yep: http://bit.ly/15yyId  We go there for Christmas treats!
joy	tweets	CAN'T SLEEP TONIGHT . Oh see ya! Bye
joy	tweets	@Juniesgurl WOOHOO!!!  My broom isnt up to standards....there is no seatbelt on mine....*whispers*  I like the Swiffer...
joy	tweets	@Hoopsiscrazy U think web design wld go down well at the International Brotherhood of Magicians? Maybe. The magic was a success at SXSWi!
joy	tweets	happy mother's day!
joy	tweets	watching Bolt with my brothers and my mom.
joy	tweets	Assignment actually looking pretty decent....so glad I changed my topic at the last minute
joy	tweets	@billzucker Thanks for making me laugh
joy	tweets	http://bit.ly/X7D1c  Spanish Grand Prix 2009  in one hour!
joy	tweets	instant-messaging with two of my favourite conversation guys
joy	tweets	8:30PM... it has just hit me i have school tomorrow :O ahaha! I'll stay on til 9 i think  Xx
joy	tweets	on a sunny walk round the lake this morning we met a mother goose and father goose and five baby goslings
joy	tweets	Had a great time last night!
joy	tweets	@HosamKamel Thanks for the follow man
surprise	tweets	@Rove1974 anychance you can get matthew to give a shout out to my mum Sarah for mothers day! we saw &quot;Ghosts from girlfriends past today&quot;
surprise	tweets	@MancunianLee Oh aye.....he rocks, shes horny
joy	tweets	@sierrabardot whaatttaatttt! she is a good cook and really creative, silly sierra
joy	tweets	@dai_bach daps were the best lol
joy	tweets	@DebbieFletcher haha i will remember that  xx
joy	tweets	@sharlynnx ME TOO! please come online *-* hope you've had an amazing weekend
surprise	tweets	today was interesting...
joy	tweets	BEEN TOWN WITH THE MOTHER  NICE &amp; SUNNNY
joy	tweets	@JamesHancox LOL or maybe it's the tooth fairy, takes 'em to keep all the kiddys  teeth safe in
joy	tweets	Gooood party last night (: Although I am extremely tired now. xD Off to bed to lounge around watch tv and sleep all day
joy	tweets	Wow! Up, coffee in hand and already outside.  So peaceful on Sunday mornings.
joy	tweets	THE VIDEO IS FINALLY DONE WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
joy	tweets	Watched Wolverine yesterday ... a spur of the moment kinda thing. Awesome! So proud that a South African director did that
joy	tweets	the sunset view is SO beautiful from my room!
joy	tweets	@McMedia Very well thank you! How are you, more importantly?
joy	tweets	@muffinwomanxo EH! u dont like retro? tisk tisk, what u been upto? ...apart from waxing ur &quot;mustache&quot; lol
joy	tweets	@SarahSaner Hey Sarah! Hws u? Hope u remember me
joy	tweets	@acchanosaurus good luck chan! gue kmrn bawa backpack kosong, quite helping
joy	tweets	good morning/midday nation!  FORMULA ONE IN ONE HOUR!
surprise	tweets	@BuddingGenius you dont say
surprise	tweets	@prinsezha awesome. Wha'dya get her?
joy	tweets	Sitting in Gatwick- going home for a week! cant wait to see family
joy	tweets	@maynaseric good luck with your auction
surprise	tweets	@iscreamshinki Oh that's why.
joy	tweets	@McMedia husband is golfing &amp; the Toddler and I shall frolic. Am I the consummate mama in that Im so happy with my day?
joy	tweets	going to watch boy in the striped pj's hope i don't cry
joy	tweets	gave the bikes a thorough wash, degrease it and grease it. think i did a really good job!
joy	tweets	had SUCH and AMAZING time last night, McFly were INCREDIBLE
joy	tweets	Succesfully following Tayla!!
joy	tweets	@niariley WASSUP BEAUTIFUL!!! FOLLOW ME!!  PEEP OUT MY NEW HIT SINGLES WWW.MYSPACE.COM/IPSOHOT I DEF. WAT U IN THE VIDEO!!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Oh, how his heart did beat!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" there sat the dog, with the eyes as large as teacups, staring at him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Good gracious, what a quantity of gold there was! enough to buy all the sugar-sticks of the sweet-stuff women; all the tin soldiers, whips, and rocking-horses in the world, or even the whole town itself There was, indeed, an immense quantity.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The soldier immediately cut off her head, and there she lay on the ground.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He found the tinder-box, but no sooner had he struck a few sparks from the flint and steel, than the door flew open and the dog with eyes as big as teacups, whom he had seen while down in the tree, stood before him, and said, "What orders, master?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The dog disappeared instantly, and before the soldier could even look round, he returned with the princess.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the dog ran back with the princess; but in the morning, while at breakfast with the king and queen, she told them what a singular dream she had had during the night, of a dog and a soldier, that she had ridden on the dog's back, and been kissed by the soldier.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"And here is one, and there is another!" they all exclaimed; for there were crosses on all the doors in every direction.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Therefore in the morning the king and queen found out where their daughter had been, and the soldier was taken up and put in prison.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And the willow-tree nodded his head, as if he would say, "Indeed I do."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the sparrows asked why he was weeping, when all around him seemed so cheerful.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Do you not smell the sweet perfume from flower and bush?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Wherefore do you weep, old willow-tree?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	I declare you have put on your Sunday clothes!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"My word!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"It is dreadfully hot here!" observed the first brother.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Baa!" there he stood like a baa-lamb.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Baa!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"It is terribly warm here!" he observed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Well, it's most abominably hot here."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"A difference!" cried the sunbeam, as he kissed the blooming apple-branch, and then kissed the yellow dandelion out in the fields.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Help! help!" exclaimed the young ladies, but there was no danger, for they quickly extinguished the fire.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What does this mean?" thought the tree, "what am I to do here?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	I can hear nothing in a place like this," and he had time enough to think, for days and nights passed and no one came near him, and when at last somebody did come, it was only to put away large boxes in a corner.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She lay on the sofa asleep, and she was so beautiful that the merchant's son could not help kissing her.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"'Yes; well in my youth, I lived in a quiet family, where the furniture was polished, the floors scoured, and clean curtains put up every fortnight,' "'What an interesting way you have of relating a story,' said the carpet-broom; 'it is easy to perceive that you have been a great deal in women's society, there is something so pure runs through what you say.'
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It had disappeared!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	A spark from the fireworks which remained had set it on fire; it was burnt to ashes!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You must not speak to me," said the garter; "I do not think I have given you any encouragement to do so."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Don't come so near me," said the garter; "I am not accustomed to it."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	You are burning a hole in me.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Ugh!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You old rag," said the flat-iron, driving proudly over the collar, for she fancied herself a steam-engine, which rolls over the railway and draws carriages.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You old rag!" said she.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Engaged!" cried the shirt collar, "now there is no one left to propose to;" and then he pretended to despise all love-making.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The latter has neither hens nor chicks, and only thinks of himself and perspires verdigris.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	No, the yard cock is really a cock!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"It was a little rough- it wanted elegance."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Garden plant!" he said to the cucumber, and in that one word his deep learning showed itself, and it forgot that he was pecking at her and eating it up.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Better to crow than to be puffed up and break off!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	You are a clever man; and a practical man; but you understand no more about poetry than that cask yonder."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But how light the room was!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little goblin had never imagined, much less seen or heard of, any sight so glorious as this.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Soon after, in the middle of the night, the goblin was awoke by a terrible noise and knocking against the window shutters and the house doors, and by the sound of the watchman's horn; for a great fire had broken out, and the whole street appeared full of flames.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"I am too fine for this world," said the darning-needle, as she lay in the gutter; "but I know who I am, and that is always some comfort."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"High-born!" said the darning-needle, "no indeed, but so haughty.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Hallo!" cried one, as he pricked himself with the darning-needle, "here's a fellow for you."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Good heavens, how it crushes!" said the darning-needle.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	One night, while she lay in her pretty bed, a large, ugly, wet toad crept through a broken pane of glass in the window, and leaped right upon the table where Tiny lay sleeping under her rose-leaf quilt.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What a pretty little wife this would make for my son, said the toad, and she took up the walnut-shell in which little Tiny lay asleep, and jumped through the window with it into the garden.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Presently a large cockchafer flew by; the moment he caught sight of her, he seized her round her delicate waist with his claws, and flew with her into a tree.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	After a time, all the cockchafers turned up their feelers, and said, "She has only two legs! how ugly that looks."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"She has no feelers," said another.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Her waist is quite slim.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Pooh! she is like a human being."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Oh! she is ugly," said all the lady cockchafers, although Tiny was very pretty.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then the cockchafer who had run away with her, believed all the others when they said she was ugly, and would have nothing more to say to her, and told her she might go where she liked.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But Tiny did not feel at all interested about this neighbor, for he was a mole.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then she laid her head on the bird's breast, but she was alarmed immediately, for it seemed as if something inside the bird went "thump, thump."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It was the bird's heart; he was not really dead, only benumbed with the cold, and the warmth had restored him to life.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Nonsense," replied the field-mouse.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	You ought to be very thankful for such good fortune."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Tweet, tweet," sounded over her head suddenly.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She looked up, and there was the swallow himself flying close by.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But how surprised she was to see in the middle of the flower, a tiny little man, as white and transparent as if he had been made of crystal!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	How that great red thing up there is staring at me!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You know nothing at all," replied the yard-dog; "but then, you've only lately been patched up.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Well, they belong to the same master," retorted the yard-dog.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Certainly people who were only born yesterday know very little.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I can see that in you.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The Snow Man felt quite a strange sensation come over him; it was very odd, he knew not what it meant, and he could not account for it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What a strange crackling I feel within me," he said.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	I must go in there and lean against her, even if I have to break the window."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"You must never go in there," said the yard-dog, "for if you approach the stove, you'll melt away, away."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why, there's the shovel that is used for cleaning out the stove, fastened to the pole."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But when he came to the words, "the nightingale is the most beautiful of all," he exclaimed, "What is this?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then he called one of his lords-in-waiting, who was so high-bred, that when any in an inferior rank to himself spoke to him, or asked him a question, he would answer, "Pooh," which means nothing.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Is it possible?" said the lord-in-waiting, "I never imagined it would be a little, plain, simple thing like that.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It is surprising that we have never heard this before; she will be a great success at court."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Round its neck hung a piece of ribbon, on which was written "The Emperor of China's nightingale is poor compared with that of the Emperor of Japan's."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And after this the real nightingale was banished from the empire, and the artificial bird placed on a silk cushion close to the emperor's bed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then a spring cracked.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The emperor immediately sprang out of bed, and called for his physician; but what could he do?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Already a new emperor had been chosen and the people who stood in the street asked the lord-in-waiting how the old emperor was; but he only said, "Pooh!" and shook his head.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The poor emperor, finding he could scarcely breathe with a strange weight on his chest, opened his eyes, and saw Death sitting there.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I love your heart better than your crown; and yet something holy lingers round that also.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The servants now came in to look after the dead emperor; when, lo! there he stood, and, to their astonishment, said, "Good morning."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Her beautiful, noble child had been a dear angel, and possessed the kindest heart; he had loved her so much, and she had loved him in return; they had kissed and loved each other, and the boy had been her joy, her second life.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Certainly he must long to see me, too, the young count; no doubt he thinks of me and loves me, as in those days when he would fling his angel-arms round my neck, and lisp 'Anne Liz.'
joy	fairytale_sentences	It was music to my ears.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It was as great and magnificent as it had always been, and the garden looked the same as ever; all the servants were strangers to her, not one of them knew Anne Lisbeth, nor of what consequence she had once been there; but she felt sure the countess would soon let them know it, and her darling boy, too: how she longed to see him!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Well, well," he said; and with that he walked out of the room.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the face of Anne Lisbeth, lighted up by the evening sun, could be seen peace and rest.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She said she was happy now, for she had conquered.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now I am in the house of God," she said, "and in that house we are happy."
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the sun set, Anne Lisbeth's soul had risen to that region where there is no more pain; and Anne Lisbeth's troubles were at an end.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At the same time, the kind-hearted old man who lived by himself in the upper storey of the house came in; he led a lonely life, for he had no wife and children; but he loved the children of others very much, and he could tell so many fairy tales and stories, that it was a pleasure to hear him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, if I only knew a fresh one," said the old man, and nodded smilingly.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"That is all very well, but such tales or stories are worth nothing!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Will not one knock soon?" asked the boy; and the mother smiled while she put elder-tree blossoms into the teapot and poured boiling water over them.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, if stories came by themselves; they are so proud, they only come when they please.- But wait," he said suddenly, "there is one.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	In the midst of the tree sat a kindly-looking old woman with a strange dress; it was as green as the leaves, and trimmed with large white blossoms, so that it was difficult to say whether it was real cloth, or the leaves and blossoms of the elder-tree.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He was an old, old sailor, and she his old wife; they had already great-grandchildren, and were soon to celebrate their golden wedding, but they could not remember the date, and the elder-tree mother was sitting in the tree and looked as pleased as this one here.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I tore it open and read it; I cried and laughed at the same time, and was so happy!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then suddenly some one put his arm round my waist-' "'Yes, and you gave him a hearty smack on the cheek,' said the old man.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'I did not know that it was you- you had come as quickly as your letter; and you looked so handsome, and so you do still.
joy	fairytale_sentences	You looked so well, and the weather in the street was horrible!'
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'Then we married,' he said.
joy	fairytale_sentences	'Do you remember how we got our first boy, and then Mary, Niels, Peter, John, and Christian?' 'Oh yes; and now they have all grown up, and have become useful members of society, whom everybody cares for.'
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'And their children have had children again,' said the old sailor.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'Yes, to-day is your golden wedding-day,' said the little elder-tree mother, stretching her head down between the two old people, who thought that she was their neighbour who was nodding to them; they looked at each other and clasped hands.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The elder-tree smelt strongly, and the setting sun illuminated the faces of the two old people, so that they looked quite rosy; the youngest of the grandchildren danced round them, and cried merrily that there would be a feast in the evening, for they were to have hot potatoes; and the elder mother nodded in the tree and cried 'Hooray' with the others."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And then she took the little boy out of bed and placed him on her bosom; the elder branches, full of blossoms, closed over them; it was as if they sat in a thick leafy bower which flew with them through the air; it was beautiful beyond all description.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She and the boy kissed each other, and then they were of the same age and felt the same joys.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hooray! now we shall ride far away, many miles!" said the boy; "we shall ride to the nobleman's estate where we were last year."
joy	fairytale_sentences	It was spring and it became summer, it was autumn and it became winter, and thousands of pictures reflected themselves in the boy's eyes and heart, and the little girl always sang again, "You will never forget that!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh! that it were always spring in the fragrant beechwood!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Here it is splendid in summer!" she said, and they passed by old castles of the age of chivalry.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"One can never forget it!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Here it's agreeable in winter!" said the little girl, and all the trees were covered with hoar-frost, so that they looked like white coral.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And indeed it was beautiful!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The little girl with the blue eyes and elder-blossoms in her hair was sitting high up in the tree, and nodded to them, saying, "To-day is the golden wedding!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And then she took two flowers out of her wreath and kissed them.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little boy in bed did not know whether he had dreamt it or heard it told; the teapot stood on the table, but no elder-tree was growing out of it, and the old man who had told the story was on the point of leaving the room, and he did go out.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How beautiful it was!" said the little boy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Mother, I have been to warm countries!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I believe you," said the mother; "if one takes two cups of hot elder-tea it is quite natural that one gets into warm countries!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And what stories grandpapa could tell!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"One never forgets a feast like that, however old one may grow," said grandfather.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It was a terrible night, and in the morning- only think!- nearly all the shields had changed places.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In some places the inscriptions were so malicious, that grandfather would not speak of them at all; but I saw that he was chuckling secretly, and there may have been some inaccuracy in his description, after all.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"We'll have a play too," he said, "and it may begin immediately."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Row, dow, dow! how they can stamp and strut!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"A domestic drama, please," said little Anna, "for the others are so fond of that.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The Waistcoat has a laydown collar, and is very modest; but he knows his own value, and has quite a right to say what he says: "'I haven't a spot on me!
joy	fairytale_sentences	I am of real silk, and have strings to me.'
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'Could I but have my love, Who then so happy as Glove!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'O Glove, my own dear, Though it cost thee a tear, Thou must be mine, For Holger Danske has sworn it!'
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That's exceedingly charming!" cried little Anna.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now comes the exciting part, little Anna.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That's a most charming comedy.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Mr. Waistcoat seized the old Pipe-head and put him in his pocket; there he lies, and the Waistcoat says: "'You are in my pocket; you can't come out till you promise to unite me to your daughter Glove on the left.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That's awfully pretty," said little Anna.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"And now we'll applaud," said grandpapa.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Our play is much better," said grandpapa.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What do they do that for," she asked, of the student who sat on the sofa; she liked him very much, he could tell the most amusing stories, and cut out the prettiest pictures; hearts, and ladies dancing, castles with doors that opened, as well as flowers; he was a delightful student.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Why do the flowers look so faded to-day?" she asked again, and pointed to her nosegay, which was quite withered.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"When it grows dark, and everybody is asleep, they jump about quite merrily.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"You must know that as soon as the king and all the court are gone into the town, the flowers run out of the garden into the castle, and you should see how merry they are.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then the old steward says, 'I smell flowers here,' but he cannot see them."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh how capital," said little Ida, clapping her hands.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	I will tell you what to do, and the botanical professor, who lives close by here, will be so surprised.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How he will wonder what has become of them!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	It was saying, 'You are so pretty, I like you very much.'
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh how funny!" said Ida, and she laughed.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"How can anyone put such notions into a child's head?" said a tiresome lawyer, who had come to pay a visit, and sat on the sofa.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	He did not like the student, and would grumble when he saw him cutting out droll or amusing pictures.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the lawyer did not like such jokes, and he would say as he had just said, "How can anyone put such nonsense into a child's head! what absurd fancies there are!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	But to little Ida, all these stories which the student told her about the flowers, seemed very droll, and she thought over them a great deal.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she whispered to them quite softly, "I know you are going to a ball to-night."
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the flowers appeared as if they did not understand, and not a leaf moved; still Ida felt quite sure she knew all about it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She lay awake a long time after she was in bed, thinking how pretty it must be to see all the beautiful flowers dancing in the king's garden.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She raised herself a little, and glanced at the door of the room where all her flowers and playthings lay; it was partly open, and as she listened, it seemed as if some one in the room was playing the piano, but softly and more prettily than she had ever before heard it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Oh what a splendid sight there was to be sure!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The flowers were dancing gracefully on the floor, making turns and holding each other by their long green leaves as they swung round.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she saw a large purple crocus jump into the middle of the table where the playthings stood, go up to the doll's bedstead and draw back the curtains; there lay the sick flowers, but they got up directly, and nodded to the others as a sign that they wished to dance with them.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They did not look ill at all now, but jumped about and were very merry, yet none of them noticed little Ida.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The carnival rod hopped about among the flowers on its three red stilted feet, and stamped quite loud when it danced the Mazurka; the flowers could not perform this dance, they were too light to stamp in that manner.
joy	fairytale_sentences	This was very amusing, and Ida could not help laughing.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then Sophy raised himself, and looked round quite astonished, "There must be a ball here to-night," said Sophy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Will you dance with me?" said the rough doll.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You are the right sort to dance with, certainly," said she, turning her back upon him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	All the flowers came round her directly, and asked if she had hurt herself, especially those who had lain in her bed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But she was not hurt at all, and Ida's flowers thanked her for the use of the nice bed, and were very kind to her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Sophy was very happy, and said they might keep her bed; she did not mind lying in the drawer at all.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the flowers thanked her very much, and said,- "We cannot live long.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then came many more flowers: blue violets, purple heart's-ease, daisies, and lilies of the valley, and they all danced together, and kissed each other.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Ida kissed her flowers and then laid them, with the box, in the earth.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They tear off each other's legs. and arms and bodies, before and behind; and yet they are merry and joyful in their way.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Can one not persuade them to live in peace and quietness, so that each one may mind his own business?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And now the wonderful little creatures were pink all over.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What have you there?" asked another old magician, who had no name- and that was the best thing about him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, if you can guess what it is," said Kribble-Krabble, "I'll make you a present of it."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It looked really like a great town reflected there, in which all the people were running about without clothes.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why, one can see that easily enough," said the other.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That's Paris, or some other great city, for they're all alike.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It's a great city!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My golden treasure, my riches, my sunshine!" said the mother; and she kissed the shining locks, and it sounded like music and song in the room of the drummer; and there was joy, and life, and movement.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The drummer beat a roll- a roll of joy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Celebrity is always something!" said the drummer; and so he scratched his own name there, and his little son's name likewise.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Peter's name will last a full year and a half longer!" said the father.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He was a boy full of life and gladness, this drummer's son with the red hair.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"He shall sing in the church, and stand among the beautiful gilded angels who are like him!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"But suppose he came back a general!" said the father.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The little drummer still kept his healthy color; he had suffered no damage; he looked cheerfully at the dog of the regiment, which was jumping along as merrily as if the whole thing had been got up for his amusement, and as if the bullets were only flying about that he might have a game of play with them.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Now the good God has taken him to Himself!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	The dog of the regiment sprang on in front with large bounds, and made the way three times as long for himself as it really was.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He was as brown as a wild man, and his eyes were bright, and his face beamed like sunshine.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And his mother held him in her arms; she kissed his lips, his forehead, and his red hair.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They laughed and they wept; and Peter embraced the old Fire-drum.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Bright day! fire in the heart! golden treasure! skrat! skr-r-at! skr-r-r-r-at!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The neighbors declared it was unbearable, and the Fire-drum was of the same opinion.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It seemed too much for him to bear; and this happened not once, but many times; and at last one day he seized the delicate fingers and the white hand, and kissed it, and looked into her great brown eyes.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Charlotte blushed to guess at it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"To be famous!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Good Heaven! what's the matter with you?" asked his mother.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"He's grown famous!" said the Fire-drum, and all his native town said the same thing, for the drummer's son, Peter with the red hair- Peter whom they had known as a little boy, running about in wooden shoes, and then as a drummer, playing for the dancers- was become famous!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"And then he looks so splendid!" said the young ladies and the old ladies too; and the oldest of all procured an album for famous locks of hair, wholly and solely that she might beg a lock of his rich splendid hair, that treasure, that golden treasure.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the son came into the poor room of the drummer, elegant as a prince, happier than a king.
joy	fairytale_sentences	His eyes were as clear and his face was as radiant as sunshine; and he held his mother in his arms, and she kissed his mouth, and wept as blissfully as any one can weep for joy; and he nodded at every old piece of furniture in the room, at the cupboard with the tea-cups, and at the flower-vase.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now I must do it!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And he beat a thundering roll-call on the instrument, and the Drum felt so highly honored that the parchment burst with exultation.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"He has a splendid touch!" said the Drum.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I've a remembrance of him now that will last.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"People say that I look exceedingly well," said the flax, "and that I am so fine and long that I shall make a beautiful piece of linen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How fortunate I am; it makes me so happy, it is such a pleasant thing to know that something can be made of me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How the sunshine cheers me, and how sweet and refreshing is the rain; my happiness overpowers me, no one in the world can feel happier than I am."
joy	fairytale_sentences	I am the happiest of all creatures."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Well, one day some people came, who took hold of the flax, and pulled it up by the roots; this was painful; then it was laid in water as if they intended to drown it; and, after that, placed near a fire as if it were to be roasted; all this was very shocking.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well, I have been very happy," he thought in the midst of his pain, "and must be contented with the past;" and contented he remained till he was put on the loom, and became a beautiful piece of white linen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well, this is quite wonderful; I could not have believed that I should be so favored by fortune.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How wonderful it is, that after all I have suffered, I am made something of at last; I am the luckiest person in the world- so strong and fine; and how white, and what a length!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then I had no attention, nor any water unless it rained; now, I am watched and taken care of.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I cannot be happier than I am now."
joy	fairytale_sentences	This was my destiny; it is quite a blessing.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now I shall be of some use in the world, as everyone ought to be; it is the only way to be happy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is most extraordinary good fortune."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I am now finer than ever, and I shall be written upon, and who can tell what fine things I may have written upon me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I never imagined anything like this," said the paper, "when I was only a little blue flower, growing in the fields.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How could I fancy that I should ever be the means of bringing knowledge and joy to man?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Each time I think that the song is ended; and then something higher and better begins for me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I am happier than ever."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Ugh," cried the paper, as it burst into a bright flame; "ugh."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"She's good for nothing.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	What a sad thing it is with these people.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Tell your mother she ought to be ashamed of herself.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Don't you become a drunkard, but I expect you will though.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Poor child! there, go now."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, how much good that does, and how it warms me," she said; "it is as good as a hot meal, and not so dear.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Oh, how cold the water is!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, you poor thing; how you do work, standing there in the water!" she exclaimed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"And so he spoke to you in that way, did he, my child?" said the washer-woman, and her lips trembled as she spoke.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Well, perhaps he is right, but he should not have said it to my child.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	How much has happened to me from that house!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Dead!" cried the laundress, turning pale as death.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Is he dead?" she exclaimed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Dear me, you are ill indeed," said the other woman.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, it is the laundress," said he; "she has had a little drop too much.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	She is good for nothing.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	It is a sad thing for her pretty little son.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I like the boy very well; but the mother is good for nothing."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The warm beer had strengthened her, and the smell of the good food had been pleasant to her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Many thanks, you good soul," she said to Martha.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I went up to him, and took his hand, and said, 'Do you still feel the same for me?' 'Yes; ever and always,' said he.
joy	fairytale_sentences	'Will you, then, marry a maiden who honors and esteems you, although she cannot offer you her love? but that may come.' 'Yes, it will come,' said he; and we joined our hands together, and I went home to my mistress.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then my mistress threw her arms round me, and kissed me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, yes, and you were a dear, good mistress," said Martha, "I shall never forget how kind you and your husband were to me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, those were happy years when you were with us, although we had no children at first.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"She has drunk herself to death," said the cruel mayor.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"There was something between my brother and her, I remember," said the mayor; "it is a good thing that she is out of the way, for now the boy will have the whole.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The mayor sent for the boy to come to him, and promised to take care of him, but most cruelly added that it was a good thing that his mother was dead, for "she was good for nothing."
joy	fairytale_sentences	On many a warm summer, the Ephemera, the flies that exist for only a day, had fluttered about the old oak, enjoyed life and felt happy and if, for a moment, one of the tiny creatures rested on one of his large fresh leaves, the tree would always say, "Poor little creature! your whole life consists only of a single day.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Melancholy! what do you mean?" the little creature would always reply.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Everything around me is so wonderfully bright and warm, and beautiful, that it makes me joyous."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Over!" repeated the fly; "what is the meaning of all over?
joy	fairytale_sentences	You may have thousands of my days, but I have thousands of moments in which I can be merry and happy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the little creature danced and floated in the air, rejoicing in her delicate wings of gauze and velvet, rejoicing in the balmy breezes, laden with the fragrance of clover-fields and wild roses, elder-blossoms and honeysuckle, from the garden hedges, wild thyme, primroses, and mint, and the scent of all these was so strong that the perfume almost intoxicated the little fly.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The long and beautiful day had been so full of joy and sweet delights, that when the sun sank low it felt tired of all its happiness and enjoyment.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Its wings could sustain it no longer, and gently and slowly it glided down upon the soft waving blades of grass, nodded its little head as well as it could nod, and slept peacefully and sweetly.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The same thing was continued through many generations of Ephemera; all of them felt equally merry and equally happy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tree had, doubtless, a kind of feeling that the festive time had arrived, and in his dream fancied he heard the bells ringing from all the churches round, and yet it seemed to him to be a beautiful summer's day, mild and warm.
joy	fairytale_sentences	His mighty summits was crowned with spreading fresh green foliage; the sunbeams played among the leaves and branches, and the air was full of fragrance from herb and blossom; painted butterflies chased each other; the summer flies danced around him, as if the world had been created merely for them to dance and be merry in.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He saw lovers meet in quiet happiness near him in the moonshine, and carve the initials of their names in the grayish-green bark on his trunk.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Once, but long years had intervened since then, guitars and Eolian harps had been hung on his boughs by merry travellers; now they seemed to hang there again, and he could hear their marvellous tones.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then it seemed as if new life was thrilling through every fibre of root and stem and leaf, rising even to the highest branches.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tree felt itself stretching and spreading out, while through the root beneath the earth ran the warm vigor of life.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As he grew higher and still higher, with increased strength, his topmost boughs became broader and fuller; and in proportion to his growth, so was his self-satisfaction increased, and with it arose a joyous longing to grow higher and higher, to reach even to the warm, bright sun itself.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At length his longing was satisfied.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Up through the clouds came the green summits of the forest trees, and beneath him, the oak saw them rising, and growing higher and higher.
joy	fairytale_sentences	May beetles hummed, the bees murmured, the birds sang, each in his own way; the air was filled with the sounds of song and gladness."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Why this is beautiful, too beautiful to be believed," said the oak in a joyful tone.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I have them all here, both great and small; not one has been forgotten.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Can such happiness be imagined?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"It is right so, it is best," said the tree, "no fetters hold me now.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I can fly up to the very highest point in light and glory.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And all I love are with me, both small and great.
joy	fairytale_sentences	All- all are here."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The root was torn from the ground just at the moment when in his dream he fancied it was being loosened from the earth.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He fell- his three hundred and sixty-five years were passed as the single day of the Ephemera.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The sea gradually became calm, and on board a great ship that had withstood the tempest during the night, all the flags were displayed, as a token of joy and festivity.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The tree is down!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The old oak,- our landmark on the coast!" exclaimed the sailors.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"It must have fallen in the storm of last night.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Thus sounded the old Christmas carol, and every one on board the ship felt his thoughts elevated, through the song and the prayer, even as the old tree had felt lifted up in its last, its beautiful dream on that Christmas morn.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But one day Ib succeeded so well in his carving that he made two pieces of wood look really like two little wooden shoes, and he determined to give them as a present to Little Christina.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Ib and Christina agreed together in everything; they divided their bread and berries when they were hungry; they were partners in digging their little gardens; they ran, and crept, and played about everywhere.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They floated on swiftly, for the tide was in their favor, passing over lakes, formed by the stream in its course; sometimes they seemed quite enclosed by reeds and water-plants, yet there was always room for them to pass out, although the old trees overhung the water and the old oaks stretched out their bare branches, as if they had turned up their sleeves and wished to show their knotty, naked arms.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The water-lilies waved themselves to and fro on the river, everything made the excursion beautiful, and at last they came to the great eel-weir, where the water rushed through the flood-gates; and the children thought this a beautiful sight.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	First they peeped into the basket containing the eels and the sucking-pig; then they must needs pull out the pig and take it in their hands, and feel it, and touch it; and as they both wanted to hold it at the same time, the consequence was that they let it fall into the water, and the pig sailed away with the stream.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Here was a terrible disaster.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	In a few minutes they found themselves deep in a thicket, and could no longer see the boat or the shore.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They looked so inviting that the children could not help stopping; and they remained there so long eating, that their mouths and cheeks became quite black with the juice.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Great quantities of fish could be seen through the clear water, sparkling in the sun's rays; they were quite surprised when they came so suddenly upon such an unexpected sight.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Out of the thicket stepped a tall old woman, her face quite brown, and her hair of a deep shining black; the whites of her eyes glittered like a Moor's; on her back she carried a bundle, and in her hand a knotted stick.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She drew out of her pocket three large nuts, in which she told them were hidden the most beautiful and lovely things in the world, for they were wishing nuts.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Ib looked at her, and as she spoke so kindly, he took courage, and asked her if she would give him the nuts; and the woman gave them to him, and then gathered some more from the bushes for herself, quite a pocket full.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"There are ten neckerchiefs in it," she replied, "as well as beautiful dresses, stockings, and a hat and veil."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Then I will have that one also," said Christina; "and it is a pretty one too.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"The best of all things for you," replied the gypsy.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But there was not much kernel to be seen; it was what we should call hollow or worm-eaten, and looked as if it had been filled with tobacco or rich black earth.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"It is just what I expected!" exclaimed Ib.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	One day, in the following spring, there came a knock at the door of the house where Ib's old mother lived; and when they opened it, lo and behold, in stepped the boatman and Christina.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He could not utter a word; he could only seize her hand and hold it fast in his own, but he felt too happy and glad to open his lips.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Christina, however, was quite at her ease; she talked and talked, and kissed him in the most friendly manner.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Even afterwards, when they were left alone, and she asked, "Did you know me again, Ib?" he still stood holding her hand, and said at last, "You are become quite a grand lady, Christina, and I am only a rough working man; but I have often thought of you and of old times."
joy	fairytale_sentences	His eyes brightened, and the words he uttered came with hesitation from his lips, but from the deepest recesses of his heart: "Christina, if you have not become too grand, and if you can be contented to live in my mother's house as my wife, we will be married some day.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh yes," she replied; "Let us wait a little longer, Ib.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I can trust you, for I believe that I do love you.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But let me think it over."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he kissed her lips; and so they parted.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He understood the gypsy woman's meaning now.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	During the two long years which followed, no letter came from Christina to her father; and when at last her father received one from her, it did not speak of prosperity or happiness.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He searched, and found a large golden armlet of superior workmanship, and it was evident that the plough had disturbed a Hun's grave.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He searched further, and found more valuable treasures, which Ib showed to the clergyman, who explained their value to him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"You have found in the earth the best thing you could find," said the magistrate.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The best thing," thought Ib; "the very best thing for me,- and found in the earth!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Well, if it really is so, then the gypsy woman was right in her prophecy."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The living, breathing embodiment of Little Christina stood before him, just as he remembered her in the days of her childhood.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He started as he did so.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It was Christina of the heath!
joy	fairytale_sentences	All was life and joy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Ib's house was well and prettily furnished; for he was a prosperous man now, while the mother of the little girl rested in the churchyard at Copenhagen, where she had died in poverty.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He talked and told anecdotes, and every one listened to him with pleasure, not unmingled with awe; but none felt so much respect for him as did the elderly widow of a naval officer.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I should like to see Rome," she said; "it must be a lovely city, or so many foreigners would not be constantly arriving there.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Several of the guests could scarcely forbear laughing, and the sculptor would have had some difficulty in keeping his countenance, but the smile on his lips faded away; for he caught sight of a pair of dark-blue eyes close by the side of the inquisitive lady.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She was a study for the sculptor to contemplate, but not to converse with; for she did not speak, or, at least, very seldom.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Mr. Alfred again spoke of Italy, and of the glorious colors in Italian scenery; the purple hills, the deep blue of the Mediterranean, the azure of southern skies, whose brightness and glory could only be surpassed in the north by the deep-blue eyes of a maiden; and he said this with a peculiar intonation; but she who should have understood his meaning looked quite unconscious of it, which also was charming.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Beautiful Italy!" sighed some of the guests.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, to travel there!" exclaimed others.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Charming!" echoed from every voice.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I may perhaps win a hundred thousand dollars in the lottery," said the naval officer's widow; "and if I do, we will travel- I and my daughter; and you, Mr. Alfred, must be our guide.
joy	fairytale_sentences	We can all three travel together, with one or two more of our good friends."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And she nodded in such a friendly way at the company, that each imagined himself to be the favored person who was to accompany them to Italy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Those deep-blue eyes, which had been lit up this evening in honor of him, must conceal treasures, treasures of heart and mind, richer than all the glories of Rome; and so when he left the party that night, he had lost it completely to the young lady.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The young man felt the truth of the proverb, "Still waters run deep:" and his heart had sunk into their depths.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It was a pleasure to hear Alfred describe anything.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Good heavens!" she exclaimed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And you saw all that with your own eyes?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He placed a pencil sketch on the table; and mamma, who had been over-powered with the appearance of the colored plates, threw a glance at the pale drawing and cried in astonishment, "What, did you see it throw up white fire?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	For a moment, Alfred's respect for Kaela's mamma underwent a sudden shock, and lessened considerably; but, dazzled by the light which surrounded Kaela, he soon found it quite natural that the old lady should have no eye for color.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The betrothed pair were very happy, and the mother was happy too.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"You are a true successor of Thorwalsden," she said to Alfred; and it seemed to him as if, in this instance, mamma had said a clever thing.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Kaela was silent; but her eyes shone, her lips smiled, every movement was graceful,- in fact, she was beautiful; that cannot be repeated too often.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, yes, you are always so polite," said mamma, with a smile; and Kaela silently pressed his hand, all soiled as it was with the clay.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Kaela's beauty had a firm hold on Alfred; it filled his soul, and held a mastery over him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Songs were sung, and cheers given; for it was a gay wedding, and they were a handsome pair.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	They felt the want of a change of air, and consequently the young couple and their mother travelled to Italy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Thank heaven we are at home again within our own four walls," said mamma-in-law and daughter both, on their return after a year's absence.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"There is no real pleasure in travelling," said mamma; "to tell the truth, it's very wearisome; I beg pardon for saying so.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I was soon very tired of it, although I had my children with me; and, besides, it's very expensive work travelling, very expensive.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	And all those galleries one is expected to see, and the quantity of things you are obliged to run after!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	It must be done, for very shame; you are sure to be asked when you come back if you have seen everything, and will most likely be told that you've omitted to see what was best worth seeing of all.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I got tired at last of those endless Madonnas; I began to think I was turning into a Madonna myself."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"And then the living, mamma," said Kaela.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, indeed," she replied, "no such a thing as a respectable meat soup- their cookery is miserable stuff."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Mamma-in-law acknowledged that Sophy was not only a clever housewife, but well-informed and accomplished, though that could hardly be expected in a person of her limited means.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"He's gone to the very extreme," said mamma-in-law; "he has gone from the most beautiful to the ugliest, and he has forgotten his first wife.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Men have no constancy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"'Pygmalion loved his Galatea,' was in the song they sung at my first wedding," said Alfred; "I once fell in love with a beautiful statue, which awoke to life in my arms; but the kindred soul, which is a gift from heaven, the angel who can feel and sympathize with and elevate us, I have not found and won till now.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"That was not a loving speech," said Sophy, "nor spoken like a Christian.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hurrah! hurrah!" cried the people in the town; for in every house the New Year was being welcomed; and as the clock struck, they stood up, the full glasses in their hands, to drink success to the new comer.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"A happy New Year," was the cry; "a pretty wife, plenty of money, and no sorrow or care."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He seemed a merry fellow.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"We'll dance the bung out of the cask at carnival time," said he; "I'll prepare a merry tune for you and for myself too.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hurrah!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But it was not true; the speaker only wanted to remind him of his name, and to make an APRIL fool of him; for with that fun the fourth generally began his career.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He looked very jovial, did little work, and had the more holidays.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Your health, and God bless you," was her salutation to him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How pretty she was! and such a singer! not a theatre singer, nor a ballad singer; no, but a singer of the woods; for she wandered through the gay green forest, and had a concert there for her own amusement.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now comes the young lady," said those in the carriage; and out stepped a young dame, delicate, proud, and pretty.
joy	fairytale_sentences	After work, came the recreations, dancing and playing in the greenwood, and the "harvest homes."
joy	fairytale_sentences	This was an ornament to the jug, and he has a great love for ornament.
joy	fairytale_sentences	A land-owner followed, who in the month for sowing seed attended to the ploughing and was fond of field sports.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The dame was very old, but her eyes glistened like two stars.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"This tree I shall guard and cherish," she said, "that it may grow large by Christmas Eve, and reach from the ground to the ceiling, to be covered and adorned with flaming candles, golden apples, and little figures.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well, now the coach may drive away," said the sentry; "we have the whole twelve.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	You prayed for him, but it was no good, he was to ride until his limbs were paralysed; but you stole down to him, as I steal now to you, you yourself put little stones under each of his feet that he might have support, nobody saw it, or they pretended not to see it, for you were then the young gracious mistress.
joy	fairytale_sentences	My father has told me this, and I have not forgotten it!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now I will free you, Mrs. Meta Mogen!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they pulled the horses out of the stable and rode off in rain and wind to obtain the assistance of friends.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Thus the small service done to the old man was richly rewarded!" said Meta Mogen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The robbers were hanged.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the garden grow roses; the mistress of the house is herself the finest rose petal, she beams with joy, the joy of good deeds: however, not done in the wide world, but in her heart, and what is preserved there is not forgotten.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But to-day the sun shines here- the warm, beautiful sun of God is within the little room; it comes from the south through the new window, where formerly the wall was.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The paralysed girl sits in the warm sunshine and can see the wood and the lake; the world had become so large, so beautiful, and only through a single word from the kind mistress of the mansion.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"The word was so easy, the deed so small," she said, "the joy it afforded me was infinitely great and sweet!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And therefore she does many a good deed, thinks of all in the humble cottages and in the rich mansions, where there are also afflicted ones.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is concealed and hidden, but God does not forget it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Delayed is not forgotten!
joy	fairytale_sentences	One day she was engaged to a poor fellow; they loved each other dearly.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Years passed; then one day she met the old friend and sweetheart in the street; he looked ill and miserable, and she could not help asking him, "How are you?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	He is like one of the family, faithful and grumpy; but the latter is my grandchildren's fault, for they have teased him; they play at wedding, and want to give him the part of the bridesmaid, and that's too much for him, poor old fellow."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	PUGGIE DIED!!
joy	fairytale_sentences	This proposal was adopted by acclamation.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Many were noticed to go about on that afternoon with only one suspender; but then they had seen Puggie's grave, and the sight was worth much more.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But in front of the tan-yard, close to the entrance, stood a little girl clothed in rags, very pretty to look at, with curly hair, and eyes so blue and clear that it was a pleasure to look into them.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why, you must be out of your senses," cried the farrier.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Golden shoes for you, indeed!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But why does the horse have golden shoes?" asked the farrier; "of course you understand the reason?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Understand!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The lady-birds, with red and black shells on their backs, and delicate wings, were flying about, and one of them said, "Is it not sweet and lovely here?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Oh, how beautiful everything is."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"I am accustomed to better things," said the beetle.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Why, there is not even a dung-heap."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How beautiful this world is!" said the caterpillar.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"The sun is so warm, I quite enjoy it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And soon I shall go to sleep, and die as they call it, but I shall wake up with beautiful wings to fly with, like a butterfly."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I have come out of the Emperor's stable, and no one there, not even the Emperor's horse, who, in fact, wears my cast-off golden shoes, has any idea of flying, excepting myself.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	To have wings and fly! why, I can do that already;" and so saying, he spread his wings and flew away.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"I don't want to be disgusted," he said to himself, "and yet I can't help it."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Two frogs were sitting on the linen, and their bright eyes actually glistened with pleasure.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Wonderful weather this," cried one of them, "and so refreshing.
joy	fairytale_sentences	This linen holds the water together so beautifully, that my hind legs quiver as if I were going to swim."
joy	fairytale_sentences	What delicious moisture!
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is as pleasant as lying in a wet ditch.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Is there not even a dunghill here in this garden, where a person of rank, like myself, could take up his abode and feel at home?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Our dear son has engaged himself," said one mother, "dear innocent boy; his greatest ambition is that he may one day creep into a clergyman's ear.
joy	fairytale_sentences	That is a very artless and loveable wish; and being engaged will keep him steady.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What happiness for a mother!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	How charming this is for a mother, is it not Mr. Beetle?" for she knew the stranger by his horny coat.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now you shall also see my little earwigs," said a third and a fourth mother, "they are lovely little things, and highly amusing.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When he arrived at the ditch, he met several friends, all them beetles; "We live here," they said, "and we are very comfortable.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Certainly," said the beetle, "I shall be most happy; I have been exposed to the rain, and have had to lie upon linen, and cleanliness is a thing that greatly exhausts me; I have also pains in one of my wings from standing in the draught under a piece of broken crockery.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is really quite refreshing to be with one's own kindred again."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"None of them are engaged yet," said their mother, and the beetle maidens tittered again, this time quite in confusion.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I have never seen greater beauties, even in the royal stables," exclaimed the beetle, who was now resting himself.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The mother gave them her blessing, and all the other beetles cried "hurrah."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Oh," said the other beetles, "this fellow that we have received into our family is nothing but a complete vagabond.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	He has gone away and left his wife a burden upon our hands."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Our beetle considered this speech a great insult, so he flew suddenly out of the speaker's hand.
joy	fairytale_sentences	All this was very delightful, and when the beetle woke up he crept forth and looked around him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What a splendid place the hothouse was!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What a wonderful quantity of plants," cried the beetle; "how good they will taste when they are decayed!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What beautiful weather," said the fly; "I shall rest here and sun myself.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Well, now I know the world," said the beetle to himself; "it's an abominable world; I'm the only respectable person in it.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	First, they refuse me my golden shoes; then I have to lie on damp linen, and to stand in a draught; and to crown all, they fasten a wife upon me.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The world does not deserve to be made acquainted with my adventures, for it ought to have given me golden shoes when the emperor's horse was shod, and I stretched out my feet to be shod, too.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"And there's a poor little creature bound fast in it," said another.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"There," she said, "creep away, or fly, if thou canst.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is a splendid thing to have thy liberty."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," he said, "here I am, seated on the emperor's favorite horse,- sitting upon him as if I were the emperor himself.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They were given to the horse on my account."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And this reflection put the beetle into a good temper.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"The world is not so bad after all, if you know how to take things as they come.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	A farmer had a horse that had been an excellent faithful servant to him: but he was now grown too old to work; so the farmer would give him nothing more to eat, and said, "I want you no longer, so take yourself off out of my stable; I shall not take you back again until you are stronger than a lion."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then he opened the door and turned him adrift.
joy	fairytale_sentences	However, the fox bid him be of good cheer, and said, "I will help you; lie down there, stretch yourself out quite stiff, and pretend to be dead."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The lion was greatly pleased, and set off immediately; and when they came to the horse, the fox said, "You will not be able to eat him comfortably here; I"ll tell you what--I will tie you fast to his tail, and then you can draw him to your den, and eat him at your leisure."
joy	fairytale_sentences	This advice pleased the lion, so he laid himself down quietly for the fox to make him fast to the horse.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Here he is, master," said he, "I have got the better of him": and when the farmer saw his old servant, his heart relented, and he said.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Thou shalt stay in thy stable and be well taken care of."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And so the poor old horse had plenty to eat, and lived--till he died.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I"ll tell you what, husband," answered the woman, "early tomorrow morning we will take the children out into the forest to where it is the thickest; there we will light a fire for them, and give each of them one more piece of bread, and then we will go to our work and leave them alone.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Be quiet, Gretel," said Hansel, "do not distress yourself, I will soon find a way to help us."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he went back and said to Gretel: "Be comforted, dear little sister, and sleep in peace, God will not forsake us," and he lay down again in his bed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Hansel and Gretel sat by the fire, and when noon came, each ate a little piece of bread, and as they heard the strokes of the wood-axe they believed that their father was near.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It was not the axe, however, but a branch which he had fastened to a withered tree which the wind was blowing backwards and forwards.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And when the full moon had risen, Hansel took his little sister by the hand, and followed the pebbles which shone like newly-coined silver pieces, and showed them the way.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They walked the whole night long, and by break of day came once more to their father"s house.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The father, however, rejoiced, for it had cut him to the heart to leave them behind alone.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Not long afterwards, there was once more great dearth throughout the land, and the children heard their mother saying at night to their father: "Everything is eaten again, we have one half loaf left, and that is the end.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the moon came they set out, but they found no crumbs, for the many thousands of birds which fly about in the woods and fields had picked them all up.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When it was mid-day, they saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a bough, which sang so delightfully that they stood still and listened to it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And when its song was over, it spread its wings and flew away before them, and they followed it until they reached a little house, on the roof of which it alighted; and when they approached the little house they saw that it was built of bread and covered with cakes, but that the windows were of clear sugar.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"We will set to work on that," said Hansel, "and have a good meal.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I will eat a bit of the roof, and you Gretel, can eat some of the window, it will taste sweet."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hansel, who liked the taste of the roof, tore down a great piece of it, and Gretel pushed out the whole of one round window-pane, sat down, and enjoyed herself with it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Suddenly the door opened, and a woman as old as the hills, who supported herself on crutches, came creeping out.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The old woman, however, nodded her head, and said: "Oh, you dear children, who has brought you here? do come in, and stay with me.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then good food was set before them, milk and pancakes, with sugar, apples, and nuts.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Afterwards two pretty little beds were covered with clean white linen, and Hansel and Gretel lay down in them, and thought they were in heaven.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The old woman had only pretended to be so kind; she was in reality a wicked witch, who lay in wait for children, and had only built the little house of bread in order to entice them there.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When a child fell into her power, she killed it, cooked and ate it, and that was a feast day with her.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Witches have red eyes, and cannot see far, but they have a keen scent like the beasts, and are aware when human beings draw near.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When Hansel and Gretel came into her neighbourhood, she laughed with malice, and said mockingly: "I have them, they shall not escape me again!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Early in the morning before the children were awake, she was already up, and when she saw both of them sleeping and looking so pretty, with their plump and rosy cheeks she muttered to herself: "That will be a dainty mouthful!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then she seized Hansel with her shrivelled hand, carried him into a little stable, and locked him in behind a grated door.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then she went to Gretel, shook her till she awoke, and cried: "Get up, lazy thing, fetch some water, and cook something good for your brother, he is in the stable outside, and is to be made fat.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Hansel, however, stretched out a little bone to her, and the old woman, who had dim eyes, could not see it, and thought it was Hansel"s finger, and was astonished that there was no way of fattening him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Let Hansel be fat or lean, tomorrow I will kill him, and cook him."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And once Gretel was inside, she intended to shut the oven and let her bake in it, and then she would eat her, too.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then Gretel gave her a push that drove her far into it, and shut the iron door, and fastened the bolt.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Gretel, however, ran like lightning to Hansel, opened his little stable, and cried: "Hansel, we are saved!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The old witch is dead!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Hansel sprang like a bird from its cage when the door is opened.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How they did rejoice and embrace each other, and dance about and kiss each other!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And as they had no longer any need to fear her, they went into the witch"s house, and in every corner there stood chests full of pearls and jewels.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"And there is also no ferry," answered Gretel, "but a white duck is swimming there: if I ask her, she will help us over."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The duck came to them, and Hansel seated himself on its back, and told his sister to sit by him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they began to run, rushed into the parlour, and threw themselves round their father"s neck.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The man had not known one happy hour since he had left the children in the forest; the woman, however, was dead.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then all anxiety was at an end, and they lived together in perfect happiness.
joy	fairytale_sentences	My tale is done, there runs a mouse; whosoever catches it, may make himself a big fur cap out of it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But as he drew near home, his little boy was so glad to see him that he crept behind him, and laid fast hold of his legs, and looked up in his face and laughed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At the sight of this he was overjoyed, and forgetting all about his son, went into trade again, and became a richer merchant than before.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The young man sat safe within, till at length it ran ashore upon an unknown land.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now the white snake was an enchanted princess; and she was very glad to see him, and said, "Are you at last come to set me free?
joy	fairytale_sentences	And all came to pass as she had said; Heinel bore all, and spoke not a word; and the third night the princess came, and fell on his neck and kissed him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Joy and gladness burst forth throughout the castle, the wedding was celebrated, and he was crowned king of the Golden Mountain.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They lived together very happily, and the queen had a son.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the princes, peers, and great men mocked at him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	This had gone on for a long time, when one day the servant, who took away the dish, was overcome with such curiosity that he could not help carrying the dish into his room.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But when he saw it he could not deny himself the pleasure of tasting it, so he cut of a little bit and put it into his mouth.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now some ducks were sitting together quietly by a brook and taking their rest; and, whilst they were making their feathers smooth with their bills, they were having a confidential conversation together.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The servant could now easily prove his innocence; and the king, to make amends for the wrong, allowed him to ask a favour, and promised him the best place in the court that he could wish for.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They leapt with delight, put out their heads, and cried to him: "We will remember you and repay you for saving us!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he turned on to a side path and the ant-king cried out to him: "We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Out with you, you idle, good-for-nothing creatures!" cried they; "we cannot find food for you any longer; you are big enough, and can provide for yourselves."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they came hopping up to it, satisfied their hunger, and cried: "We will remember you--one good turn deserves another!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Many had already made the attempt, but in vain; nevertheless when the youth saw the king"s daughter he was so overcome by her great beauty that he forgot all danger, went before the king, and declared himself a suitor.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He stood on the shore and considered what he should do, when suddenly he saw three fishes come swimming towards him, and they were the very fishes whose lives he had saved.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Full of joy he took it to the king and expected that he would grant him the promised reward.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But when the proud princess perceived that he was not her equal in birth, she scorned him, and required him first to perform another task.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The ant-king had come in the night with thousands and thousands of ants, and the grateful creatures had by great industry picked up all the millet-seed and gathered them into the sacks.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Presently the king"s daughter herself came down into the garden, and was amazed to see that the young man had done the task she had given him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The youth, full of joy, set out homewards, and took the Golden Apple to the king"s beautiful daughter, who had now no more excuses left to make.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They cut the Apple of Life in two and ate it together; and then her heart became full of love for him, and they lived in undisturbed happiness to a great age.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The little calf always remained standing like one which was eating, and the cow-herd said: "It will soon run by itself, just look how it eats already!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the meantime came the parson; the miller"s wife received him well, and said: "My husband is out, so we will have a feast."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Just as they were about to sit down and eat, there was a knocking outside.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It is my husband!" she quickly hid the roast meat inside the tiled stove, the wine under the pillow, the salad on the bed, the cakes under it, and the parson in the closet on the porch.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I am contented with anything," replied the husband, "so far as I am concerned, bread and cheese will do," and looked at the peasant and said: "Come and eat some more with me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The peasant did not require to be invited twice, but got up and ate.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	After this the miller saw the skin in which the raven was, lying on the ground, and asked: "What have you there?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Can he foretell anything to me?" said the miller.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why not?" answered the peasant: "but he only says four things, and the fifth he keeps to himself."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The miller was curious, and said: "Let him foretell something for once."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The miller said: "What did he say?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Bless me!" cried the miller, and went there and found the wine.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Now go on," said he.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Upon my word!" cried the miller, and went thither, and found the roast meat.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"That would be a fine thing!" cried the miller, and looked there, and found the cakes.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The peasant, however, made off next morning by daybreak with the three hundred talers.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At home the small peasant gradually launched out; he built a beautiful house, and the peasants said: "The small peasant has certainly been to the place where golden snow falls, and people carry the gold home in shovels."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the peasants heard that, they too wished to enjoy this great profit, and ran home, killed all their cows, and stripped off their skins in order to sell them in the town to the greatest advantage.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The others were all obliged to retire to a distance, and when the peasant looked at the priest, he recognized the man who had been with the miller"s wife.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The shepherd hearing that, came up to him, and asked: "What are you about?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	What is it that you will not do?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The shepherd said: "If nothing more than that is needful in order to be mayor, I would get into the barrel at once."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The shepherd was willing, and got in, and the peasant shut the top down on him; then he took the shepherd"s flock for himself, and drove it away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They believed no otherwise than that it was the peasant who was saying this, and answered: "That is what we intend, but first you shall look about you a little down below there," and they rolled the barrel down into the water.
joy	fairytale_sentences	After that the peasants went home, and as they were entering the village, the small peasant also came quietly in, driving a flock of sheep and looking quite contented.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the peasants were astonished, and said: "Peasant, from whence do you come?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Have you come out of the water?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, truly," replied the peasant, "I sank deep, deep down, until at last I got to the bottom; I pushed the bottom out of the barrel, and crept out, and there were pretty meadows on which a number of lambs were feeding, and from thence I brought this flock away with me."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Said the peasants: "Are there any more there?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, yes," said he, "more than I could want."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the peasants made up their minds that they too would fetch some sheep for themselves, a flock apiece, but the mayor said: "I come first."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So they went to the water together, and just then there were some of the small fleecy clouds in the blue sky, which are called little lambs, and they were reflected in the water, whereupon the peasants cried: "We already see the sheep down below!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The mayor pressed forward and said: "I will go down first, and look about me, and if things promise well I"ll call you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he jumped in; splash! went the water; it sounded as if he were calling them, and the whole crowd plunged in after him as one man.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the entire village was dead, and the small peasant, as sole heir, became a rich man.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And while she was speaking, the child plucked off quite a large apple, and ran to her sisters, saying, "Just taste, my dear little sisters, for never in my life have I tasted anything so delightful."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the two other sisters also ate some of the apple, whereupon all three sank deep down into the earth, where they could hear no cock crow.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When mid-day came, the King wished to call them to come to dinner, but they were nowhere to be found.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The huntsman was about to do so and stooped, on which the mannikin took a stick, seized him by the hair, and gave him a good beating.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then said Hans to the little mannikin, "What! canst thou not pick up that piece thyself?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	If thou wilt not take as much trouble as that for thy daily bread, thou dost not deserve to have it."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The princess sprang up, threw her arms round his neck, embraced and kissed him repeatedly, and took her stomacher, which was made of pure gold, and hung it round his neck.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And they all rejoiced, and embraced him and kissed him without stopping.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the princesses saw him they fainted.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the gnat had heard that, she flew away again, and revealed everything, down to the minutest detail, to the willow-wren.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the King and Queen flew home to their children and cried: "Children, rejoice, eat and drink to your heart"s content, we have won the battle!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And now at last the young wrens were satisfied, and sat down together and ate and drank, and made merry till quite late into the night.
joy	fairytale_sentences	There was once a cook named Gretel, who wore shoes with red heels, and when she walked out with them on, she turned herself this way and that, was quite happy and thought: "You certainly are a pretty girl!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And when she came home she drank, in her gladness of heart, a draught of wine, and as wine excites a desire to eat, she tasted the best of whatever she was cooking until she was satisfied, and said: "The cook must know what the food is like."
joy	fairytale_sentences	She ran down, set a jug, said: "God bless it for you, Gretel," and took a good drink, and thought that wine should flow on, and should not be interrupted, and took yet another hearty draught.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she went and put the fowls down again to the fire, basted them, and drove the spit merrily round.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But as the roast meat smelt so good, Gretel thought: "Something might be wrong, it ought to be tasted!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	She touched it with her finger, and said: "Ah! how good fowls are!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She ran to the window, to see if the master was not coming with his guest, but she saw no one, and went back to the fowls and thought: "One of the wings is burning!
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she cut it off, ate it, and enjoyed it, and when she had done, she thought: "The other must go down too, or else master will observe that something is missing."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It suddenly occurred to her: "Who knows?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she said: "Well, Gretel, enjoy yourself, one fowl has been cut into, take another drink, and eat it up entirely; when it is eaten you will have some peace, why should God"s good gifts be spoilt?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she ran into the cellar again, took an enormous drink and ate up the one chicken in great glee.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Presently the guest came, and knocked politely and courteously at the house-door.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why, Gretel?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	What do you mean by that?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, yes," said the doctor, "that is soon managed."
joy	fairytale_sentences	With this the doctor was satisfied, and returned to the hall, sat down to the table, and said: "My lord, now will I search in my book where the gold is hidden."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Doctor Knowall showed the lord where the money was, but did not say who had stolen it, and received from both sides much money in reward, and became a renowned man.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She was prettier than all the pretty girls that ever were seen before, and a shepherd lad, whose name was Jorindel, was very fond of her, and they were soon to be married.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It was a beautiful evening; the last rays of the setting sun shone bright through the long stems of the trees upon the green underwood beneath, and the turtle-doves sang from the tall birches.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The sun was setting fast, and already half of its circle had sunk behind the hill: Jorindel on a sudden looked behind him, and saw through the bushes that they had, without knowing it, sat down close under the old walls of the castle.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"The ring-dove sang from the willow spray, Well-a-day!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Jorindel turned to see the reason, and beheld his Jorinda changed into a nightingale, so that her song ended with a mournful /jug, jug/.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	On a sudden Jorindel found himself free.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last he dreamt one night that he found a beautiful purple flower, and that in the middle of it lay a costly pearl; and he dreamt that he plucked the flower, and went with it in his hand into the castle, and that everything he touched with it was disenchanted, and that there he found his Jorinda again.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the morning when he awoke, he began to search over hill and dale for this pretty flower; and eight long days he sought for it in vain: but on the ninth day, early in the morning, he found the beautiful purple flower; and in the middle of it was a large dewdrop, as big as a costly pearl.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He walked nearer than a hundred paces to it, and yet he did not become fixed as before, but found that he could go quite close up to the door.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Jorindel was very glad indeed to see this.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he touched the door with the flower, and it sprang open; so that he went in through the court, and listened when he heard so many birds singing.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He ran or flew after her, touched the cage with the flower, and Jorinda stood before him, and threw her arms round his neck looking as beautiful as ever, as beautiful as when they walked together in the wood.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he touched all the other birds with the flower, so that they all took their old forms again; and he took Jorinda home, where they were married, and lived happily together many years: and so did a good many other lads, whose maidens had been forced to sing in the old fairy"s cages by themselves, much longer than they liked.
joy	fairytale_sentences	There the child fared well, ate sugar-cakes, and drank sweet milk, and her clothes were of gold, and the little angels played with her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In each of them sat one of the Apostles in the midst of a great light, and she rejoiced in all the magnificence and splendour, and the little angels who always accompanied her rejoiced with her.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The Virgin Mary has forbidden it, and it might easily cause thy unhappiness."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She stayed there awhile, and looked at everything in amazement; then she touched the light a little with her finger, and her finger became quite golden.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When he had at last forced his way through, he saw a wonderfully beautiful maiden sitting under the tree; and she sat there and was entirely covered with her golden hair down to her very feet.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He stood still and looked at her full of surprise, then he spoke to her and said, "Who art thou?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Although she could not speak, she was still so beautiful and charming that he began to love her with all his heart, and it was not long before he married her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the Queen rejoiced thereat, the Virgin Mary said, "Is thy heart not yet softened?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	She must be judged," and the King was no longer able to restrain his councillors.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She spoke kindly to her, and said, "He who repents his sin and acknowledges it, is forgiven."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then the rich man looked at the traveler from head to foot, and as the Lord was wearing common clothes, and did not look like one who had much money in his pocket, he shook his head, and said, "No, I cannot take you in, my rooms are full of herbs and seeds; and if I were to lodge everyone who knocked at my door, I might very soon go begging myself.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Pass the night with me, it is already dark," said he; "you cannot go any further to-night."
joy	fairytale_sentences	This pleased the Lord, and he went in.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The poor man"s wife shook hands with him, and welcomed him, and said he was to make himself at home and put up with what they had got; they had not much to offer him, but what they had they would give him with all their hearts.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the cloth was laid, the Lord sat down with the man and his wife, and he enjoyed their coarse food, for there were happy faces at the table.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"With all my heart," he answered, "I will go and offer it to him;" and he went to the stranger and invited him, if he had no objection, to sleep in their bed and rest his limbs properly.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the man said, "What else should I wish for but eternal happiness, and that we two, as long as we live, may be healthy and have every day our daily bread; for the third wish, I do not know what to have."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, yes," said the man; "if I can have that, too, I should like it very much."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He was very much astonished, and called his wife and said to her, "Tell me, what can have happened?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	That traveler came to our house too, and wanted to sleep here, and I sent him away."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The rich man had now gained what he wanted, so he rode home, and began to consider what he should wish for.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Directly he had said the words, down the horse fell on the ground, and there it lay dead and never moved again.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I have still two wishes left," said he, and comforted himself with that thought.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then it came into his mind, what an easy life his wife had, for she stayed at home in a cool room and enjoyed herself.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And as the last word was spoken, the saddle disappeared from his back, and he saw that his second wish had been fulfilled.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he got nothing by it but vexation, trouble, abuse, and the loss of his horse; but the poor people lived happily, quietly, and piously until their happy death.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What makes you pant so, my friend?" said the ass.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hark ye!" said the ass, "I am going to the great city to turn musician: suppose you go with me, and try what you can do in the same way?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	The dog said he was willing, and they jogged on together.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Pray, my good lady," said the ass, "what"s the matter with you?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	You look quite out of spirits!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh," said the ass, "by all means go with us to the great city; you are a good night singer, and may make your fortune as a musician."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The cat was pleased with the thought, and joined the party.
joy	fairytale_sentences	If we care to sing in tune, we may get up some kind of a concert; so come along with us."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"With all my heart," said the cock: so they all four went on jollily together.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	In doing this, he saw afar off something bright and shining and calling to his companions said, "There must be a house no great way off, for I see a light."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"If that be the case," said the ass, "we had better change our quarters, for our lodging is not the best in the world!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Besides," added the dog, "I should not be the worse for a bone or two, or a bit of meat."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," said the ass, "if we could only get in"; so they consulted together how they should contrive to get the robbers out; and at last they hit upon a plan.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The ass brayed, the dog barked, the cat mewed, and the cock screamed; and then they all broke through the window at once, and came tumbling into the room, amongst the broken glass, with a most hideous clatter!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The coast once clear, our travellers soon sat down and dispatched what the robbers had left, with as much eagerness as if they had not expected to eat again for a month.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As soon as they had satisfied themselves, they put out the lights, and each once more sought out a resting-place to his own liking.
joy	fairytale_sentences	After this the robbers never dared to go back to the house; but the musicians were so pleased with their quarters that they took up their abode there; and there they are, I dare say, at this very day.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Stay here, thou wilt be of no use out there, besides thou mightest get lost!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now that will do," said the giant, "thou art perfect," and took him back to the field from whence he had brought him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Truly I am your son; allow me to do your work, I can plough as well as you, nay better."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"No, no, thou art not my son; and thou canst not plough go away!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	When he entered the yard, his mother did not recognize him, and asked, "Who is that horrible tall man?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	She said, "No that cannot be our son, we never had such a tall one, ours was a little thing."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	She called to him, "Go away, we do not want thee!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	The farmer was glad, put his two horses in his cart, and fetched from the smith a staff so large and thick, that the two horses could only just bring it away.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The son snapped this also in twain against his knees, threw it away, and said, "Father, this can be of no use to me, you must harness more horses, and bring a stronger staff."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	When the son took it in his hand, he broke off a bit from the top of it also, and said, "Father, I see that you will not be able to procure me any such staff as I want, I will remain no longer with you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The miser was heartily satisfied, and thought he would thus save much money.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the bailiff was satisfied, for he, too, was a covetous fellow.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then said the bailiff to his wife, "The servant is a good one, if he does sleep long, he is still home before the others."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The advice pleased the bailiff, and the head-servant was quite willing to go down the well.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As he was hungry, and saw the food, he, too, place himself at the table, ate with those who were eating and enjoyed it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The miller rejoiced, and said that the mill was now released from the spell, and wanted to give him much money as a reward.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The poor fellow thought it was a great deal of money to have, and said to himself, "Why should I work hard, and live here on bad fare any longer?
joy	fairytale_sentences	I can now travel into the wide world, and make myself merry."
joy	fairytale_sentences	With that he put his money into his purse, and set out, roaming over hill and valley.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As he jogged along over the fields, singing and dancing, a little dwarf met him, and asked him what made him so merry.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Why, what should make me down-hearted?" said he; "I am sound in health and rich in purse, what should I care for?
joy	fairytale_sentences	I have saved up my three years" earnings and have it all safe in my pocket."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the countryman rejoiced at his good luck, and said, "I like many things better than money: first, I will have a bow that will bring down everything I shoot at; secondly, a fiddle that will set everyone dancing that hears me play upon it; and thirdly, I should like that everyone should grant what I ask."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The dwarf said he should have his three wishes; so he gave him the bow and fiddle, and went his way.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Our honest friend journeyed on his way too; and if he was merry before, he was now ten times more so.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, what a pretty bird!" said the miser; "I would give a great deal of money to have such a one."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the countryman saw so much money, he said, "I will agree to your proposal."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he took the purse, put up his fiddle, and travelled on very pleased with his bargain.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the judge sent out his officers to bring up the accused wherever they should find him; and he was soon caught and brought up to be tried.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the little cock took the water to the hen, but when he got there the hen had choked in the meantime, and lay there dead and motionless.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But when the six mice came to the bridge, the straw slipped and fell into the water, and the six mice all fell in and were drowned.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the cock drew the carriage himself, but when he got it over and reached the other shore with the dead hen, and was about to draw over the others who were sitting behind as well, there were too many of them, the carriage ran back, and they all fell into the water together, and were drowned.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She at once made herself a salad of it, and ate it greedily.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then the enchantress allowed her anger to be softened, and said to him: "If the case be as you say, I will allow you to take away with you as much rampion as you will, only I make one condition, you must give me the child which your wife will bring into the world; it shall be well treated, and I will care for it like a mother."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When she was twelve years old, the enchantress shut her into a tower, which lay in a forest, and had neither stairs nor door, but quite at the top was a little window.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He rode home, but the singing had so deeply touched his heart, that every day he went out into the forest and listened to it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"If that is the ladder by which one mounts, I too will try my fortune," said he, and the next day when it began to grow dark, he went to the tower and cried:
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Rapunzel lost her fear, and when he asked her if she would take him for her husband, and she saw that he was young and handsome, she thought: "He will love me more than old Dame Gothel does"; and she said yes, and laid her hand in his.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She said: "I will willingly go away with you, but I do not know how to get down.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Bring with you a skein of silk every time that you come, and I will weave a ladder with it, and when that is ready I will descend, and you will take me on your horse."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The enchantress remarked nothing of this, until once Rapunzel said to her: "Tell me, Dame Gothel, how it happens that you are so much heavier for me to draw up than the young king"s son--he is with me in a moment."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Two of her tears wetted his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see with them as before.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He led her to his kingdom where he was joyfully received, and they lived for a long time afterwards, happy and contented.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Scarcely were the words out of her mouth, when the child in her arms was turned into a raven, and flew away from her through the open window.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As he drew near, the raven said, "I am by birth a king"s daughter, but am now under the spell of some enchantment; you can, however, set me free."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What am I to do?" he asked.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The man assured her again that he would on no account touch a thing to eat or drink.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When he came to the house and went inside, the old woman met him, and said, "Poor man! how tired you are!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Come in and rest and let me give you something to eat and drink."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"No," answered the man, "I will neither eat not drink."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Suddenly a feeling of fatigue came over him, and unable to resist it, he lay down for a little while, fully determined, however, to keep awake; but in another minute his eyes closed of their own accord, and he fell into such a deep sleep, that all the noises in the world would not have awakened him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last, overcome by her persistent entreaties that he would take something, he lifted the glass and drank again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The following day the old woman said to him, "What is this?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Again the next day he pursued his way through the forest, and that evening, thinking to rest again, he lay down as before, but he heard such a howling and wailing that he found it impossible to sleep.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He waited till it was darker and people had begun to light up their houses, and then seeing a little glimmer ahead of him, he went towards it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He found that the light came from a house which looked smaller than it really was, from the contrast of its height with that of an immense giant who stood in front of it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the giant saw him, he called out, "It is lucky for that you have come, for I have not had anything to eat for a long time.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I can have you now for my supper."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"If that is so," replied the giant, "I will leave you in peace; I only thought of eating you because I had nothing else."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So they went indoors together and sat down, and the man brought out the bread, meat, and wine, which although he had eaten and drunk of them, were still unconsumed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The giant was pleased with the good cheer, and ate and drank to his heart"s content.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I have two hours to spare," said the giant, "and I will carry you into the neighbourhood of the castle; I must then return to look after the child who is in our care."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He found it situated, however, on a glass mountain, and looking up from the foot he saw the enchanted maiden drive round her castle and then go inside.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He was overjoyed to see her, and longed to get to the top of the mountain, but the sides were so slippery that every time he attempted to climb he fell back again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	A third time he called out, "God be with you," and then thinking he should like to know the cause of dispute between the three men, he went out and asked them why they were fighting so angrily with one another.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	On hearing this, the man said, "I will give you something in exchange for those three things; not money, for that I have not got, but something that is of far more value.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When therefore she came to the castle gate she saw him, and cried aloud for joy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he dismounted and took her in his arms; and she kissed him, and said, "Now you have indeed set me free, and tomorrow we will celebrate our marriage."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He found the blue light, and made her a signal to draw him up again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the smoke had circled about the cavern, suddenly a little black dwarf stood before him, and said: "Lord, what are your commands?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What my commands are?" replied the soldier, quite astonished.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good," said the soldier; "then in the first place help me out of this well."
joy	fairytale_sentences	On the way the dwarf showed him the treasures which the witch had collected and hidden there, and the soldier took as much gold as he could carry.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When he was above, he said to the little man: "Now go and bind the old witch, and carry her before the judge."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"It is all done," said he, "and the witch is already hanging on the gallows.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"At this moment, none," answered the soldier; "you can return home, only be at hand immediately, if I summon you."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon he vanished from his sight.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The soldier returned to the town from which he come.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He went to the best inn, ordered himself handsome clothes, and then bade the landlord furnish him a room as handsome as possible.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And now loaded with chains, he was standing at the window of his dungeon, when he chanced to see one of his comrades passing by.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The soldier tapped at the pane of glass, and when this man came up, said to him: "Be so kind as to fetch me the small bundle I have left lying in the inn, and I will give you a ducat for doing it."
joy	fairytale_sentences	His comrade ran thither and brought him what he wanted.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As soon as the soldier was alone again, he lighted his pipe and summoned the black manikin.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Have no fear," said the latter to his master.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Go wheresoever they take you, and let them do what they will, only take the blue light with you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then an angel from heaven came to her and said: "Be at rest, you shall have a son with the power of wishing, so that whatsoever in the world he wishes for, that shall he have."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she went to the king, and told him the joyful tidings, and when the time was come she gave birth to a son, and the king was filled with gladness.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The two played together, and loved each other with all their hearts, and the old cook went out hunting like a nobleman.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon he went away, and when he returned next day she had not done it, and said: "Why should I shed the blood of an innocent boy who has never harmed anyone?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	At length he said to the maiden: "I will go home to my own country; if you will go with me, I will provide for you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they were all placed on sixty country carts, and driven home to the king, and for once he was able to deck his table with game, after having had none at all for years.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now the king felt great joy at this, and commanded that his entire household should eat with him next day, and made a great feast.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When they were all assembled together, he said to the huntsman: "As you are so clever, you shall sit by me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hardly had he formed the wish than the marshal began, and said: "Your majesty, we live joyously here, but how is the queen living in the tower?
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king replied: "Yes, I would like to see her."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The son said: "Most gracious father, I will show her to you in the form of a beautiful flower," and he thrust his hand into his pocket and brought forth the pink, and placed it on the royal table, and it was so beautiful that the king had never seen one to equal it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She lived three days more, and then died happily, and when she was buried, the two white doves which had brought her food to the tower, and were angels of heaven, followed her body and seated themselves on her grave.
joy	fairytale_sentences	His conscience was clear and his heart light amidst all his troubles; so he went peaceably to bed, left all his cares to Heaven, and soon fell asleep.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	In the morning after he had said his prayers, he sat himself down to his work; when, to his great wonder, there stood the shoes all ready made, upon the table.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The good man knew not what to say or think at such an odd thing happening.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The same day a customer came in, and the shoes suited him so well that he willingly paid a price higher than usual for them; and the poor shoemaker, with the money, bought leather enough to make two pairs more.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wife liked the thought; so they left a light burning, and hid themselves in a corner of the room, behind a curtain that was hung up there, and watched what would happen.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As soon as it was midnight, there came in two little naked dwarfs; and they sat themselves upon the shoemaker"s bench, took up all the work that was cut out, and began to ply with their little fingers, stitching and rapping and tapping away at such a rate, that the shoemaker was all wonder, and could not take his eyes off them.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"These little wights have made us rich, and we ought to be thankful to them, and do them a good turn if we can.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The thought pleased the good cobbler very much; and one evening, when all the things were ready, they laid them on the table, instead of the work that they used to cut out, and then went and hid themselves, to watch what the little elves would do.
joy	fairytale_sentences	About midnight in they came, dancing and skipping, hopped round the room, and then went to sit down to their work as usual; but when they saw the clothes lying for them, they laughed and chuckled, and seemed mightily delighted.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they dressed themselves in the twinkling of an eye, and danced and capered and sprang about, as merry as could be; till at last they danced out at the door, and away over the green.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The good couple saw them no more; but everything went well with them from that time forward, as long as they lived.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But the arrow did the bird no harm; only it dropped a golden feather from its tail, and then flew away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I should be very silly," said he, "if I went to that shabby house, and left this charming place"; so he went into the smart house, and ate and drank at his ease, and forgot the bird, and his country too.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He met the fox, who gave him the good advice: but when he came to the two inns, his eldest brother was standing at the window where the merrymaking was, and called to him to come in; and he could not withstand the temptation, but went in, and forgot the golden bird and his country in the same manner.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But he was thankful to the fox, and did not attempt his life as his brothers had done; so the fox said, "Sit upon my tail, and you will travel faster."
joy	fairytale_sentences	When they came to the village, the son followed the fox"s counsel, and without looking about him went to the shabby inn and rested there all night at his ease.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Before the castle gate all was as the fox had said: so the son went in and found the chamber where the golden bird hung in a wooden cage, and below stood the golden cage, and the three golden apples that had been lost were lying close by it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But the bird set up such a loud scream that all the soldiers awoke, and they took him prisoner and carried him before the king.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As he took up the golden saddle the groom awoke and cried out so loud, that all the guards ran in and took him prisoner, and in the morning he was again brought before the court to be judged, and was sentenced to die.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the king was obliged to keep his word, and away went the young man and the princess; and the fox came and said to him, "We will have all three, the princess, the horse, and the bird."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the young man, "that would be a great thing, but how can you contrive it?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	This, too, happened as the fox said; they carried off the bird, the princess mounted again, and they rode on to a great wood.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the fox came, and said, "Pray kill me, and cut off my head and my feet."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," thought the young man, "it is no hard matter to keep that advice."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he did not stay to think about the matter, but paid what was asked, and his brothers were given up, and went on with him towards their home.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So he said, "Yes," and forgot the fox"s counsel, and sat down on the side of the river; and while he suspected nothing, they came behind, and threw him down the bank, and took the princess, the horse, and the bird, and went home to the king their master, and said.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"All this have we won by our labour."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he dressed himself as a poor man, and came secretly to the king"s court, and was scarcely within the doors when the horse began to eat, and the bird to sing, and princess left off weeping.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he went to the king, and told him all his brothers" roguery; and they were seized and punished, and he had the princess given to him again; and after the king"s death he was heir to his kingdom.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The children, who saw from a distance that some one was approaching, thought that their dear father was coming to them, and full of joy, ran to meet him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The Queen went home quite delighted, and thought she had got rid of her step-children, but the girl had not run out with her brothers, and the Queen knew nothing about her.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Where are thy brothers?" asked the King.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the maiden looked at them and recognized her brothers, was glad and crept forth from beneath the bed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The brothers were not less delighted to see their little sister, but their joy was of short duration.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As she was so beautiful, the King"s heart was touched, and he was smitten with a great love for her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He placed her by his side at table, and her modest bearing and courtesy pleased him so much that he said, "She is the one whom I wish to marry, and no other woman in the world."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Who knows," said she, "from whence the creature who can"t speak, comes?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	She is not worthy of a king!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she saw that her deliverance was near, and her heart leapt with joy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then to the great joy of the King they were brought thither, and as a punishment, the wicked step-mother was bound to the stake, and burnt to ashes.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the King and the Queen with their six brothers lived many years in happiness and peace.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Do just tell her, miss, that a young fox is here, who would like to woo her."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What does he look like, my dear?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	After this still more came, each with one tail more than the other, but they were all turned away, until at last one came who had nine tails, like old Mr Fox.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the widow heard that, she said joyfully to the cat:
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now open the gates and doors all wide, And carry old Mr Fox outside."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The third of the boys was, however, the drudge, who was looked on as foolish by the others; they begrudged the mill to him, and afterwards he would not have it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He looked around on every side and exclaimed, "Oh, heavens, where am I?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Whilst he was thus walking full of thought, he met a small tabby-cat which said quite kindly, "Hans, where are you going?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Well, this is a wonderful cat!" thought Hans, "but I am determined to see if she is telling the truth."
joy	fairytale_sentences	They leapt nimbly upstairs and downstairs, and were merry and happy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That feels very soft!" said Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," said Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she opened the door of the small house, and when she had opened it, there stood twelve horses, such horses, so bright and shining, that his heart rejoiced at the sight of them.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then they laughed and said, "Indeed, stupid Hans, where wilt thou get a horse?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Hans went into the parlour, but the miller said he should not sit down to table, for he was so ragged and torn, that they would all be ashamed of him if any one came in.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the morning when he awoke, the three days had passed, and a coach came with six horses and they shone so bright that it was delightful to see them! and a servant brought a seventh as well, which was for the poor miller"s boy.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And a magnificent princess alighted from the coach and went into the mill, and this princess was the little tabby-cat whom poor Hans had served for seven years.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So she ordered the servant to bring the seventh horse, and when the miller saw it, he said that such a horse as that had never yet entered his yard.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They first drove to the little house which he had built with the silver tools, and behold it was a great castle, and everything inside it was of silver and gold; and then she married him, and he was rich, so rich that he had enough for all the rest of his life.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	For a long time she did not know that she had ever had any brothers; for her father and mother took care not to speak of them before her: but one day by chance she heard the people about her speak of them.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the little girl heard this (for she stood behind the door all the time and listened), she ran forward, and in an instant all the ravens took their right form again; and all hugged and kissed each other, and went merrily home.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He was well entertained, and in the evening was taken to the chamber next to the one where the princesses lay in their twelve beds.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the soldier heard all this good counsel, he determined to try his luck: so he went to the king, and said he was willing to undertake the task.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He was as well received as the others had been, and the king ordered fine royal robes to be given him; and when the evening came he was led to the outer chamber.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the twelve princesses heard this they laughed heartily; and the eldest said, "This fellow too might have done a wiser thing than lose his life in this way!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they rose up and opened their drawers and boxes, and took out all their fine clothes, and dressed themselves at the glass, and skipped about as if they were eager to begin dancing.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You simpleton," said the eldest, "you are always afraid; have you forgotten how many kings" sons have already watched in vain?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You silly creature!" said the eldest, "it is nothing but a nail in the wall."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As they were rowing over the lake, the prince who was in the boat with the youngest princess and the soldier said, "I do not know why it is, but though I am rowing with all my might we do not get on so fast as usual, and I am quite tired: the boat seems very heavy today."
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the morning the soldier said nothing about what had happened, but determined to see more of this strange adventure, and went again the second and third night; and every thing happened just as before; the princesses danced each time till their shoes were worn to pieces, and then returned home.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"In milk I"m breaking bread so sweet, Will you be my guest, and eat?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Is Mrs Fox not at home?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Mrs Fox asked: "Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has he a pointed mouth?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then Mrs Fox said: "Has the gentleman red stockings on, and has a little pointed mouth?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," said the cat, "he has."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Then let him come upstairs," said Mrs Fox, and ordered the servant to prepare the wedding feast.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Sweep me the room as clean as you can, Up with the window, fling out my old man!
joy	fairytale_sentences	For many a fine fat mouse he brought, Yet of his wife he never thought, But ate up every one he caught."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the wedding was solemnized with young Mr Fox, and there was much rejoicing and dancing; and if they have not left off, they are dancing still.
joy	fairytale_sentences	That suited the wolf, and they went thither, and the fox stole the little lamb, took it to the wolf, and went away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	There was meat in abundance, and the wolf attacked it instantly and thought, "There is plenty of time before I need leave off!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king looked at her and did not know her, but as they were such handsome fellows, he said: "Yes," and that he would willingly take them, and now they were the king"s twelve huntsmen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king was well pleased with the counsel, and caused the peas to be strewn.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king liked the advice, and had the spinning-wheels placed in the ante-chamber.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The twelve huntsmen always followed the king to the chase, and his liking for them continually increased.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he saw the ring which he had given to his first bride, and when he looked in her face he recognized her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then his heart was so touched that he kissed her, and when she opened her eyes he said: "You are mine, and I am yours, and no one in the world can alter that."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon the wedding was celebrated, and the lion was again taken into favour, because, after all, he had told the truth.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the master said, "You have been a faithful and good servant, Hans, so your pay shall be handsome."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hans took out his pocket-handkerchief, put the piece of silver into it, threw it over his shoulder, and jogged off on his road homewards.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said Hans aloud, "what a fine thing it is to ride on horseback!
joy	fairytale_sentences	There he sits as easy and happy as if he was at home, in the chair by his fireside; he trips against no stones, saves shoe-leather, and gets on he hardly knows how."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hans was delighted as he sat on the horse, drew himself up, squared his elbows, turned out his toes, cracked his whip, and rode merrily off, one minute whistling a merry tune, and another singing,
joy	fairytale_sentences	"No care and no sorrow, A fig for the morrow!
joy	fairytale_sentences	We"ll laugh and be merry, Sing neigh down derry!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Away went the horse full gallop; and before Hans knew what he was about, he was thrown off, and lay on his back by the road-side.
joy	fairytale_sentences	His horse would have ran off, if a shepherd who was coming by, driving a cow, had not stopped it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," said the shepherd, "if you are so fond of her, I will change my cow for your horse; I like to do good to my neighbours, even though I lose by it myself."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What a noble heart that good man has!" thought he.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the shepherd jumped upon the horse, wished Hans and the cow good morning, and away he rode.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hans brushed his coat, wiped his face and hands, rested a while, and then drove off his cow quietly, and thought his bargain a very lucky one.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"If I have only a piece of bread (and I certainly shall always be able to get that), I can, whenever I like, eat my butter and cheese with it; and when I am thirsty I can milk my cow and drink the milk: and what can I wish for more?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Hans had not thought of looking to that.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	While he was trying his luck in milking, and managing the matter very clumsily, the uneasy beast began to think him very troublesome; and at last gave him such a kick on the head as knocked him down; and there he lay a long while senseless.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Luckily a butcher soon came by, driving a pig in a wheelbarrow.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What is the matter with you, my man?" said the butcher, as he helped him up.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the butcher gave him a flask of ale, saying, "There, drink and refresh yourself; your cow will give you no milk: don"t you see she is an old beast, good for nothing but the slaughter-house?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I hate cow-beef; it is not tender enough for me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," said the butcher, "I don"t like to say no, when one is asked to do a kind, neighbourly thing.
joy	fairytale_sentences	To please you I will change, and give you my fine fat pig for the cow."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Heaven reward you for your kindness and self-denial!" said Hans, as he gave the butcher the cow; and taking the pig off the wheel-barrow, drove it away, holding it by the string that was tied to its leg.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So on he jogged, and all seemed now to go right with him: he had met with some misfortunes, to be sure; but he was now well repaid for all.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How could it be otherwise with such a travelling companion as he had at last got?
joy	fairytale_sentences	The countryman stopped to ask what was o"clock; this led to further chat; and Hans told him all his luck, how he had so many good bargains, and how all the world went gay and smiling with him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Feel," said he, "how heavy it is, and yet it is only eight weeks old.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Whoever roasts and eats it will find plenty of fat upon it, it has lived so well!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hark ye!" said he, "my worthy friend, you seem a good sort of fellow, so I can"t help doing you a kind turn.
joy	fairytale_sentences	However, I will not be hard upon you, as you are in trouble."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he took the string in his hand, and drove off the pig by a side path; while Hans went on the way homewards free from care.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"After all," thought he, "that chap is pretty well taken in.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I don"t care whose pig it is, but wherever it came from it has been a very good friend to me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I have much the best of the bargain.
joy	fairytale_sentences	First there will be a capital roast; then the fat will find me in goose-grease for six months; and then there are all the beautiful white feathers.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I will put them into my pillow, and then I am sure I shall sleep soundly without rocking.
joy	fairytale_sentences	How happy my mother will be!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Talk of a pig, indeed!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Give me a fine fat goose."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"O"er hill and o"er dale So happy I roam, Work light and live well, All the world is my home; Then who so blythe, so merry as I?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hans stood looking on for a while, and at last said, "You must be well off, master grinder! you seem so happy at your work."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," said the other, "mine is a golden trade; a good grinder never puts his hand into his pocket without finding money in it--but where did you get that beautiful goose?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"And where did you get the pig?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Very true: but how is that to be managed?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How can you ask?" said Hans; "I should be the happiest man in the world, if I could have money whenever I put my hand in my pocket: what could I want more? there"s the goose."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hans took the stone, and went his way with a light heart: his eyes sparkled for joy, and he said to himself, "Surely I must have been born in a lucky hour; everything I could want or wish for comes of itself.
joy	fairytale_sentences	People are so kind; they seem really to think I do them a favour in letting them make me rich, and giving me good bargains."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So he laid the stone carefully by his side on the bank: but, as he stooped down to drink, he forgot it, pushed it a little, and down it rolled, plump into the stream.
joy	fairytale_sentences	For a while he watched it sinking in the deep clear water; then sprang up and danced for joy, and again fell upon his knees and thanked Heaven, with tears in his eyes, for its kindness in taking away his only plague, the ugly heavy stone.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How happy am I!" cried he; "nobody was ever so lucky as I."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then up he got with a light heart, free from all his troubles, and walked on till he reached his mother"s house, and told her how very easy the road to good luck was.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the straw began and said: "Dear friends, from whence do you come here?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	The coal replied: "I fortunately sprang out of the fire, and if I had not escaped by sheer force, my death would have been certain,--I should have been burnt to ashes."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The bean said: "I too have escaped with a whole skin, but if the old woman had got me into the pan, I should have been made into broth without any mercy, like my comrades."
joy	fairytale_sentences	I luckily slipped through her fingers."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The proposition pleased the two others, and they set out on their way together.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The bean, who had prudently stayed behind on the shore, could not but laugh at the event, was unable to stop, and laughed so heartily that she burst.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It would have been all over with her, likewise, if, by good fortune, a tailor who was travelling in search of work, had not sat down to rest by the brook.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As he had a compassionate heart he pulled out his needle and thread, and sewed her together.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The bean thanked him most prettily, but as the tailor used black thread, all beans since then have a black seam.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Now this king was very fond of money; and when he heard the miller"s boast his greediness was raised, and he sent for the girl to be brought before him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And round about the wheel went merrily; the work was quickly done, and the straw was all spun into gold.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the king came and saw this, he was greatly astonished and pleased; but his heart grew still more greedy of gain, and he shut up the poor miller"s daughter again with a fresh task.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king was greatly delighted to see all this glittering treasure; but still he had not enough: so he took the miller"s daughter to a yet larger heap, and said, "All this must be spun tonight; and if it is, you shall be my queen."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Then say you will give me," said the little man, "the first little child that you may have when you are queen."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Round went the wheel again to the old song, and the manikin once more spun the heap into gold.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king came in the morning, and, finding all he wanted, was forced to keep his word; so he married the miller"s daughter, and she really became queen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At the birth of her first little child she was very glad, and forgot the dwarf, and what she had said.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But one day he came into her room, where she was sitting playing with her baby, and put her in mind of it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The next day the little man came, and she began with TIMOTHY, ICHABOD, BENJAMIN, JEREMIAH, and all the names she could remember; but to all and each of them he said, "Madam, that is not my name."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The second day she began with all the comical names she could hear of, BANDY-LEGS, HUNCHBACK, CROOK-SHANKS, and so on; but the little gentleman still said to every one of them, "Madam, that is not my name."
joy	fairytale_sentences	""Merrily the feast I"ll make.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Today I"ll brew, tomorrow bake; Merrily I"ll dance and sing, For next day will a stranger bring.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Little does my lady dream Rumpelstiltskin is my name!""
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the queen heard this she jumped for joy, and as soon as her little friend came she sat down upon her throne, and called all her court round to enjoy the fun; and the nurse stood by her side with the baby in her arms, as if it was quite ready to be given up.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the little man began to chuckle at the thought of having the poor child, to take home with him to his hut in the woods; and he cried out, "Now, lady, what is my name?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Can your name be RUMPELSTILTSKIN?" said the lady slyly.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he made the best of his way off, while the nurse laughed and the baby crowed; and all the court jeered at him for having had so much trouble for nothing, and said, "We wish you a very good morning, and a merry feast, Mr RUMPLESTILTSKIN!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Thou hast been light-fingered and hast snipped folks" clothes away.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Thou wilt not get into heaven.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tailor stood still, and looked at the seat for a long time, for it pleased him better than all else.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, Lord," answered the tailor joyously, "I threw it in my anger down to earth at an old woman whom I saw stealing two veils at the washing."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	No one shall give punishment here, but I alone, the Lord."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The woman became bitterly unkind to her step-daughter, and day by day did her best to treat her still worse.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	She was also envious because her step-daughter was beautiful and lovable, and her own daughter ugly and repulsive.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Good heavens!" said the girl, "no strawberries grow in winter!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And why am I to go in this paper frock?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	It is so cold outside that one"s very breath freezes!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The wind will blow through the frock, and the thorns will tear it off my body."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then she gave her a little piece of hard bread, and said, "This will last thee the day," and thought, "Thou wilt die of cold and hunger outside, and wilt never be seen again by me."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	They asked, "What dost thou here in the forest in the winter time, in thy thin dress?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then said the first, "My gift is, that she shall every day grow more beautiful."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The second said, "My gift is, that gold pieces shall fall out of her mouth every time she speaks."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The third said, "My gift is, that a king shall come and take her to wife."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The girl, however, did as the little men had bidden her, swept away the snow behind the little house with the broom, and what did she find but real ripe strawberries, which came up quite dark-red out of the snow!
joy	fairytale_sentences	In her joy she hastily gathered her basket full, thanked the little men, shook hands with each of them, and ran home to take her step-mother what she had longed for so much.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Give us some of it," cried the little men; but she replied, "There is not enough for myself, so how can I give it away to other people?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Sweep for yourselves," she answered, "I am not your servant."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The first said, "I grant that she may grow uglier every day."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The second said, "I grant that at every word she says, a toad shall spring out of her mouth."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The third said, "I grant that she may die a miserable death."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, yes, with all my heart," she answered, for she was glad to get away from the mother and sister.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she got into the carriage and drove away with the King, and when they arrived at his palace, the wedding was celebrated with great pomp, as the little men had granted to the maiden.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon the King was full of great joy, but he kept the Queen hidden in a chamber until the Sunday, when the baby was to be christened.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"A lucky hit!" said he, as he called to his servant, and told him to go to a beautiful bed of roses that was there, and bring him away one of the finest flowers.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And as he came near home, it was Lily, his youngest and dearest daughter, that met him; she came running, and kissed him, and welcomed him home; and when she saw that he had brought her the rose, she was still more glad.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The next morning she asked the way she was to go, and took leave of her father, and went forth with a bold heart into the wood.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But the lion was an enchanted prince.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And when Lily came to the castle, he welcomed her so courteously that she agreed to marry him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wedding-feast was held, and they lived happily together a long time.
joy	fairytale_sentences	After some time he said to her, "Tomorrow there will be a great feast in your father"s house, for your eldest sister is to be married; and if you wish to go and visit her my lions shall lead you thither."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she rejoiced much at the thoughts of seeing her father once more, and set out with the lions; and everyone was overjoyed to see her, for they had thought her dead long since.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But she told them how happy she was, and stayed till the feast was over, and then went back to the wood.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she began to be glad, and thought to herself that the time was fast coming when all her troubles should end; yet repose was still far off, for one day as she was travelling on she missed the white feather, and when she lifted up her eyes she could nowhere see the dove.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Go to the Red Sea; on the right shore stand many rods--count them, and when thou comest to the eleventh, break it off, and smite the dragon with it; and so the lion will have the victory, and both of them will appear to you in their own forms.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then look round and thou wilt see a griffin, winged like bird, sitting by the Red Sea; jump on to his back with thy beloved one as quickly as possible, and he will carry you over the waters to your home.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But no sooner was the princess released from the spell, than she seized the prince by the arm and sprang on to the griffin"s back, and went off carrying the prince away with her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she put it on, and went into the palace, and all the people gazed upon her; and the dress pleased the bride so much that she asked whether it was to be sold.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But as she sat she bethought herself of the egg that the moon had given her; and when she broke it, there ran out a hen and twelve chickens of pure gold, that played about, and then nestled under the old one"s wings, so as to form the most beautiful sight in the world.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And she rose up and drove them before her, till the bride saw them from her window, and was so pleased that she came forth and asked her if she would sell the brood.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the prince took care to throw away the sleeping draught; and when Lily came and began again to tell him what woes had befallen her, and how faithful and true to him she had been, he knew his beloved wife"s voice, and sprang up, and said, "You have awakened me as from a dream, for the strange princess had thrown a spell around me, so that I had altogether forgotten you; but Heaven hath sent you to me in a lucky hour."
joy	fairytale_sentences	There they found their child, now grown up to be comely and fair; and after all their troubles they lived happily together to the end of their days.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Once upon a time there was a dear little girl who was loved by everyone who looked at her, but most of all by her grandmother, and there was nothing that she would not have given to the child.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I will take great care," said Little Red-Cap to her mother, and gave her hand on it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Red-Cap did not know what a wicked creature he was, and was not at all afraid of him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wolf thought to himself: "What a tender young creature! what a nice plump mouthful--she will be better to eat than the old woman.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I must act craftily, so as to catch both."
joy	fairytale_sentences	I believe, too, that you do not hear how sweetly the little birds are singing; you walk gravely along as if you were going to school, while everything else out here in the wood is merry."
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is so early in the day that I shall still get there in good time"; and so she ran from the path into the wood to look for flowers.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And whenever she had picked one, she fancied that she saw a still prettier one farther on, and ran after it, and so got deeper and deeper into the wood.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh! grandmother," she said, "what big ears you have!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But, grandmother, what big eyes you have!" she said.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But, grandmother, what large hands you have!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the wolf had appeased his appetite, he lay down again in the bed, fell asleep and began to snore very loud.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Do I find you here, you old sinner!" said he.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I have long sought you!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then just as he was going to fire at him, it occurred to him that the wolf might have devoured the grandmother, and that she might still be saved, so he did not fire, but took a pair of scissors, and began to cut open the stomach of the sleeping wolf.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then all three were delighted.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The huntsman drew off the wolf"s skin and went home with it; the grandmother ate the cake and drank the wine which Red-Cap had brought, and revived, but Red-Cap thought to herself: "As long as I live, I will never by myself leave the path, to run into the wood, when my mother has forbidden me to do so."
joy	fairytale_sentences	But Red-Cap went joyously home, and no one ever did anything to harm her again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The servant ran after his master and told him what had happened, but would not leave his saddle behind him, and ran back to fetch it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She did not know what that was, she thought and thought, but she could not find out, she opened her riddle-books, but it was not in them---in short, her wisdom was at an end.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When she knew the answer to the riddle she wanted to steal away, but he held her mantle so fast that she was forced to leave it behind her.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	When Gambling Hansel came, however, he pretended that the money had fallen into the gutter, and kept raking about in it all the while to find it, but our Lord already knew that he had lost it in play.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When he turned the tap, however, lo and behold, the best of wine ran out!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Upon this St. Peter said to the Lord, "Lord, this thing must not go on, he will win, and thou lose, the whole world.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	So St. Peter said to the Lord, "Lord, this thing must not go on.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So Hansel went at once to Death and said to him, "Come down," and Death took him directly and put an end to him.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, we will have nothing to do with him!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Begone!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And now he was off again with his crooked devils, and they went to Hohenfuert and pulled up a hop-pole, and with it went to Heaven and began to thrust the pole against it, and Heaven began to crack.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	So again St. Peter said, "Lord, this thing cannot go on, we must let him in, or he will throw us down from Heaven."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Therefore St. Peter once more said, "Lord, this cannot go on, we must throw him down, or he will make all Heaven rebellious."
joy	fairytale_sentences	For a long time all went well; they lived in great comfort, and prospered so far as to be able to add considerably to their stores.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And so it came to pass, that the bird, while out one day, met a fellow bird, to whom he boastfully expatiated on the excellence of his household arrangements.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The sausage had only to watch the pot to see that the food was properly cooked, and when it was near dinner-time, he just threw himself into the broth, or rolled in and out among the vegetables three or four times, and there they were, buttered, and salted, and ready to be served.
joy	fairytale_sentences	One summer"s morning a little tailor was sitting on his table by the window; he was in good spirits, and sewed with all his might.
joy	fairytale_sentences	This rang pleasantly in the tailor"s ears; he stretched his delicate head out of the window, and called: "Come up here, dear woman; here you will get rid of your goods."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He inspected each one, lifted it up, put his nose to it, and at length said: "The jam seems to me to be good, so weigh me out four ounces, dear woman, and if it is a quarter of a pound that is of no consequence."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now, this jam shall be blessed by God," cried the little tailor, "and give me health and strength"; so he brought the bread out of the cupboard, cut himself a piece right across the loaf and spread the jam over it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He laid the bread near him, sewed on, and in his joy, made bigger and bigger stitches.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the meantime the smell of the sweet jam rose to where the flies were sitting in great numbers, and they were attracted and descended on it in hosts.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hi! who invited you?" said the little tailor, and drove the unbidden guests away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Are you a fellow of that sort?" said he, and could not help admiring his own bravery.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the little tailor hastened to cut himself a girdle, stitched it, and embroidered on it in large letters: "Seven at one stroke!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What, the town!" he continued, "the whole world shall hear of it!" and his heart wagged with joy like a lamb"s tail.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tailor put on the girdle, and resolved to go forth into the world, because he thought his workshop was too small for his valour.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now he took to the road boldly, and as he was light and nimble, he felt no fatigue.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The road led him up a mountain, and when he had reached the highest point of it, there sat a powerful giant looking peacefully about him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The little tailor went bravely up, spoke to him, and said: "Good day, comrade, so you are sitting there overlooking the wide-spread world!
joy	fairytale_sentences	I am just on my way thither, and want to try my luck.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, indeed?" answered the little tailor, and unbuttoned his coat, and showed the giant the girdle, "there may you read what kind of a man I am!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The giant read: "Seven at one stroke," and thought that they had been men whom the tailor had killed, and began to feel a little respect for the tiny fellow.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Faith," said he, "that was a little better, wasn"t it?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The giant did not know what to say, and could not believe it of the little man.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now, little mite of a man, do that likewise," "Well thrown," said the tailor, "but after all the stone came down to earth again; I will throw you one which shall never come back at all," and he put his hand into his pocket, took out the bird, and threw it into the air.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The bird, delighted with its liberty, rose, flew away and did not come back.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The giant took the trunk on his shoulder, but the tailor seated himself on a branch, and the giant, who could not look round, had to carry away the whole tree, and the little tailor into the bargain: he behind, was quite merry and happy, and whistled the song: "Three tailors rode forth from the gate," as if carrying the tree were child"s play.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tailor sprang nimbly down, seized the tree with both arms as if he had been carrying it, and said to the giant: "You are such a great fellow, and yet cannot even carry the tree!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When he had fallen down again without injury, the giant said: "What is this?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Have you not strength enough to hold the weak twig?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	When it was midnight, and the giant thought that the little tailor was lying in a sound sleep, he got up, took a great iron bar, cut through the bed with one blow, and thought he had finished off the grasshopper for good.
joy	fairytale_sentences	With the earliest dawn the giants went into the forest, and had quite forgotten the little tailor, when all at once he walked up to them quite merrily and boldly.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said they, "what does the great warrior want here in the midst of peace?
joy	fairytale_sentences	They went and announced him to the king, and gave it as their opinion that if war should break out, this would be a weighty and useful man who ought on no account to be allowed to depart.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The counsel pleased the king, and he sent one of his courtiers to the little tailor to offer him military service when he awoke.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"You must be dreaming," said the other, "I am not knocking you."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"It is a lucky thing," said he, "that they did not tear up the tree on which I was sitting, or I should have had to sprint on to another like a squirrel; but we tailors are nimble."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But are you not wounded?" asked the horsemen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"You need not concern yourself about that," answered the tailor, "they have not bent one hair of mine."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The horsemen would not believe him, and rode into the forest; there they found the giants swimming in their blood, and all round about lay the torn-up trees.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Softly, softly; it can"t be done as quickly as that," said he, and stood still and waited until the animal was quite close, and then sprang nimbly behind the tree.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now, I have got the bird," said the tailor, and came out from behind the tree and put the rope round its neck, and then with his axe he hewed the horn out of the tree, and when all was ready he led the beast away and took it to the king.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wedding was held with great magnificence and small joy, and out of a tailor a king was made.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king comforted her and said: "Leave your bedroom door open this night, and my servants shall stand outside, and when he has fallen asleep shall go in, bind him, and take him on board a ship which shall carry him into the wide world."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The woman was satisfied with this; but the king"s armour-bearer, who had heard all, was friendly with the young lord, and informed him of the whole plot.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He sought out a high oak, climbed up to the top of it, and thanked God that he had his goose with him, for otherwise the wind which blew over the top of the tree would have carried him away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He knocked boldly, the door opened, and by the light which came forth he saw a little hoary old man who wore a coat made of bits of colored stuff sewn together.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I am a poor tailor," he answered, "whom night has surprised here in the wilderness, and I earnestly beg you to take me into your hut until morning."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The tailor, who had watched the fight with astonishment, was still standing there motionless, when the stag in full career bounded up to him, and before he could escape, caught him up on his great horns.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Flames of fire shot forth, after which followed a great smoke, which hid the stag from his sight.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He looked at everything full of admiration, and was on the point of going out again, when he once more heard the voice which said to him, "Step on the stone which lies in the middle of the hall, and great good fortune awaits thee."
joy	fairytale_sentences	How his admiration increased when he saw therein a maiden of the greatest beauty!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tailor was looking at the beauty with beating heart, when she suddenly opened her eyes, and started up at the sight of him in joyful terror.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Just Heaven!" cried she, "my deliverance is at hand!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Quick, quick, help me out of my prison; if thou pushest back the bolt of this glass coffin, then I shall be free."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she seated herself on a stone, ordered the young man to come to her, and after she had imprinted a friendly kiss on his lips, she said, "My long-desired deliverer, kind Heaven has guided thee to me, and put an end to my sorrows.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Thou art the husband chosen for me by Heaven, and shalt pass thy life in unbroken joy, loved by me, and rich to overflowing in every earthly possession.
joy	fairytale_sentences	We loved each other so tenderly, and were so alike in our way of thinking and our inclinations, that we both embraced the resolution never to marry, but to stay together to the end of our lives.
joy	fairytale_sentences	My brother liked the stranger so much that he begged him to spend a couple of days with us, to which, after some hesitation, he consented.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Hardly had I slept for a short time, when the sound of faint and delightful music awoke me.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As I could not conceive from whence it came, I wanted to summon my waiting-maid who slept in the next room, but to my astonishment I found that speech was taken away from me by an unknown force.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	My repugnance to his magic arts was, however, so great, that I vouchsafed him no answer.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"When I came to my senses again I found myself in this underground cave in a glass coffin.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Amongst the visions which passed before my eyes, that was the most comforting in which a young man came and set me free, and when I opened my eyes to-day I saw thee, and beheld my dream fulfilled.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The maiden had scarcely opened the bottles when the blue smoke rushed out and changed itself into living men, in whom she recognized her servants and her people.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Her joy was still more increased when her brother, who had killed the magician in the form of the bull, came out of the forest towards them in his human form, and on the self-same day the maiden, in accordance with her promise, gave her hand at the altar to the lucky tailor.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When he went inside, the dogs did not bark at him, but wagged their tails quite amicably around him, ate what he set before them, and did not hurt one hair of his head.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Next morning, to the astonishment of everyone, he came out again safe and unharmed, and said to the lord of the castle: "The dogs have revealed to me, in their own language, why they dwell there, and bring evil on the land.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then all who heard this rejoiced, and the lord of the castle said he would adopt him as a son if he accomplished it successfully.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He went down again, and as he knew what he had to do, he did it thoroughly, and brought a chest full of gold out with him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The howling of the wild dogs was henceforth heard no more; they had disappeared, and the country was freed from the trouble.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And just as that was decided on, the young count entered into the church, and suddenly two snow-white doves flew on his shoulders and remained sitting there.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The ecclesiastics recognized therein the token from above, and asked him on the spot if he would be pope.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then was he anointed and consecrated, and thus was fulfilled what he had heard from the frogs on his way, which had so affected him, that he was to be his Holiness the Pope.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he had to sing a mass, and did not know one word of it, but the two doves sat continually on his shoulders, and said it all in his ear.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she sought for leaves and moss to make a soft bed for the roe; and every morning she went out and gathered roots and berries and nuts for herself, and brought tender grass for the roe, who ate out of her hand, and was content and played round about her.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the blasts of the horns, the barking of dogs, and the merry shouts of the huntsmen rang through the trees, and the roebuck heard all, and was only too anxious to be there.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the young roebuck sprang away; so happy was he and so merry in the open air.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The next day the hunt went on afresh, and when the roebuck again heard the bugle-horn, and the ho! ho! of the huntsmen, he had no peace, but said, "Sister, let me out, I must be off."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the door opened, and the King walked in, and there stood a maiden more lovely than any he had ever seen.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the King looked kindly at her, stretched out his hand, and said, "Will you go with me to my palace and be my dear wife?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, indeed," answered the maiden, "but the little roe must go with me, I cannot leave him."
joy	fairytale_sentences	She was now the Queen, and they lived for a long time happily together; the roebuck was tended and cherished, and ran about in the palace-garden.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Her own daughter, who was ugly as night, and had only one eye, grumbled at her and said, "A Queen! that ought to have been my luck."
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the evening when he came home and heard that he had a son he was heartily glad, and was going to the bed of his dear wife to see how she was.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The King said, "Ah, heavens! what is this?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the King could not restrain himself; he sprang towards her, and said, "You can be none other than my dear wife."
joy	fairytale_sentences	She answered, "Yes, I am your dear wife," and at the same moment she received life again, and by God"s grace became fresh, rosy, and full of health.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And as soon as she was burnt the roebuck changed his shape, and received his human form again, so the sister and brother lived happily together all their lives.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh!" said the man, "you need not fear the gallows; for I will only teach you to steal what will be fair game: I meddle with nothing but what no one else can get or care anything about, and where no one can find you out."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So the young man agreed to follow his trade, and he soon showed himself so clever, that nothing could escape him that he had once set his mind upon.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The plan pleased him much, and he soon became such a skilful star-gazer, that when he had served out his time, and wanted to leave his master, he gave him a glass, and said, "With this you can see all that is passing in the sky and on earth, and nothing can be hidden from you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The third brother met a huntsman, who took him with him, and taught him so well all that belonged to hunting, that he became very clever in the craft of the woods; and when he left his master he gave him a bow, and said, "Whatever you shoot at with this bow you will be sure to hit."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh!" answered the man, "that is not my sort of tailoring; come with me, and you will learn quite another kind of craft from that."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Not knowing what better to do, he came into the plan, and learnt tailoring from the beginning; and when he left his master, he gave him a needle, and said, "You can sew anything with this, be it as soft as an egg or as hard as steel; and the joint will be so fine that no seam will be seen."
joy	fairytale_sentences	After the space of four years, at the time agreed upon, the four brothers met at the four cross-roads; and having welcomed each other, set off towards their father"s home, where they told him all that had happened to them, and how each had learned some craft.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Well done, sons!" said the old man; "you have made good use of your time, and learnt something worth the knowing; but I am sure I do not know which ought to have the prize.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Oh, that a time might soon come for you to turn your skill to some account!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the four brothers said to each other, "Here is a chance for us; let us try what we can do."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I will soon find out where she is, however," said the star-gazer, as he looked through his glass; and he soon cried out, "I see her afar off, sitting upon a rock in the sea, and I can spy the dragon close by, guarding her."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Then I will try my skill," said the thief, and went and stole her away from under the dragon, so quietly and gently that the beast did not know it, but went on snoring.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But when he got over the boat, and wanted to pounce upon them and carry off the princess, the huntsman took up his bow and shot him straight through the heart so that he fell down dead.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So the tailor took his needle, and with a few large stitches put some of the planks together; and he sat down upon these, and sailed about and gathered up all pieces of the boat; and then tacked them together so quickly that the boat was soon ready, and they then reached the ship and got home safe.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When they had brought home the princess to her father, there was great rejoicing; and he said to the four brothers, "One of you shall marry her, but you must settle amongst yourselves which it is to be."
joy	fairytale_sentences	But to make up for your loss, I will give each of you, as a reward for his skill, half a kingdom."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So the brothers agreed that this plan would be much better than either quarrelling or marrying a lady who had no mind to have them.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the king then gave to each half a kingdom, as he had said; and they lived very happily the rest of their days, and took good care of their father; and somebody took better care of the young lady, than to let either the dragon or one of the craftsmen have her again.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The dog liked this plan very well; and accordingly so it was managed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the shepherd patted him on the head, and said, "Old Sultan has saved our child from the wolf, and therefore he shall live and be well taken care of, and have plenty to eat.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So from this time forward Sultan had all that he could wish for.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he wanted to go his way; but she took hold of him, and said, "Listen, my friend, to what I am going to tell you; I will reward you for your kindness; go your way, and after a little time you will come to a tree where you will see nine birds sitting on a cloak.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Shoot into the midst of them, and one will fall down dead: the cloak will fall too; take it, it is a wishing-cloak, and when you wear it you will find yourself at any place where you may wish to be.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Cut open the dead bird, take out its heart and keep it, and you will find a piece of gold under your pillow every morning when you rise.
joy	fairytale_sentences	It is the bird"s heart that will bring you this good luck."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The huntsman thanked her, and thought to himself, "If all this does happen, it will be a fine thing for me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," said the huntsman, "this is wonderful; this happens just as the old woman said"; then he shot into the midst of them so that their feathers flew all about.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The next morning when he awoke he lifted up his pillow, and there lay the piece of gold glittering underneath; the same happened next day, and indeed every day when he arose.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I will go out into the world and look about me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he took leave of his friends, and hung his bag and bow about his neck, and went his way.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Meantime the huntsman came nearer and looked at the lady, and said to himself, "I have been travelling so long that I should like to go into this castle and rest myself, for I have money enough to pay for anything I want"; but the real reason was, that he wanted to see more of the beautiful lady.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he went into the house, and was welcomed kindly; and it was not long before he was so much in love that he thought of nothing else but looking at the lady"s eyes, and doing everything that she wished.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So the lady stole it away, and he never found any more gold under his pillow, for it lay now under the young lady"s, and the old woman took it away every morning; but he was so much in love that he never missed his prize.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"If that"s all your grief," said the huntsman, "I"ll take there with all my heart"; so he drew her under his cloak, and the moment he wished to be on the granite mountain they were both there.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The diamonds glittered so on all sides that they were delighted with the sight and picked up the finest.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So they sat down, and he laid his head in her lap and fell asleep; and whilst he was sleeping on she took the cloak from his shoulders, hung it on her own, picked up the diamonds, and wished herself home again.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At last he thought to himself, "I can eat salad, it will refresh and strengthen me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	However, he still felt very hungry, and the salad tasted very nice; so he ate on till he came to another kind of salad, and scarcely had he tasted it when he felt another change come over him, and soon saw that he was lucky enough to have found his old shape again.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he laid himself down and slept off a little of his weariness; and when he awoke the next morning he broke off a head both of the good and the bad salad, and thought to himself, "This will help me to my fortune again, and enable me to pay off some folks for their treachery."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he went away to try and find the castle of his friends; and after wandering about a few days he luckily found it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the witch and the young lady heard of his beautiful salad, they longed to taste it, and said, "Dear countryman, let us just taste it."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he thought something must have happened, and said, "I will go into the kitchen and see."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And as he went he saw two asses in the court running about, and the salad lying on the ground.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he took up the rest of the leaves, laid them on the dish and brought them to the young lady, saying, "I bring you the dish myself that you may not wait any longer."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the huntsman washed his face and went into the court that they might know him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"With all my heart," said the miller; "but how shall I treat them?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	After this he went back to the castle, where he found everything he wanted.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But he said, "Keep it, it will be just the same thing, for I mean to make you my wife."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So they were married, and lived together very happily till they died.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now she had a golden ball in her hand, which was her favourite plaything; and she was always tossing it up into the air, and catching it again as it fell.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The frog said, "I want not your pearls, and jewels, and fine clothes; but if you will love me, and let me live with you and eat from off your golden plate, and sleep upon your bed, I will bring you your ball again."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He can never even get out of the spring to visit me, though he may be able to get my ball for me, and therefore I will tell him he shall have what he asks."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she said to the frog, "Well, if you will bring me my ball, I will do all you ask."
joy	fairytale_sentences	As soon as the young princess saw her ball, she ran to pick it up; and she was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again, that she never thought of the frog, but ran home with it as fast as she could.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the princess ran to the door and opened it, and there she saw the frog, whom she had quite forgotten.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The king, her father, seeing that something had frightened her, asked her what was the matter.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then the king said to the young princess, "As you have given your word you must keep it; so go and let him in."
joy	fairytale_sentences	She did so, and the frog hopped into the room, and then straight on--tap, tap--plash, plash-- from the bottom of the room to the top, till he came up close to the table where the princess sat.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Pray lift me upon chair," said he to the princess, "and let me sit next to you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now, then," thought the princess, "at last he is gone, and I shall be troubled with him no more."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But when the princess awoke on the following morning she was astonished to see, instead of the frog, a handsome prince, gazing on her with the most beautiful eyes she had ever seen, and standing at the head of her bed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He told her that he had been enchanted by a spiteful fairy, who had changed him into a frog; and that he had been fated so to abide till some princess should take him out of the spring, and let him eat from her plate, and sleep upon her bed for three nights.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"You," said the prince, "have broken his cruel charm, and now I have nothing to wish for but that you should go with me into my father"s kingdom, where I will marry you, and love you as long as you live."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The young princess, you may be sure, was not long in saying "Yes" to all this; and as they spoke a gay coach drove up, with eight beautiful horses, decked with plumes of feathers and a golden harness; and behind the coach rode the prince"s servant, faithful Heinrich, who had bewailed the misfortunes of his dear master during his enchantment so long and so bitterly, that his heart had well-nigh burst.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They then took leave of the king, and got into the coach with eight horses, and all set out, full of joy and merriment, for the prince"s kingdom, which they reached safely; and there they lived happily a great many years.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Gretel."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What do you bring that is good?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Gretel."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Gretel presents Hans with a young goat.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Gretel."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What good thing do you bring?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	The dogs come and devour the bacon.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Hans, What good thing do you bring?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Gretel presents Hans with a calf.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Goodbye, Gretel."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Goodbye, Hans."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Gretel."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What good thing do you bring?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Gretel says to Hans: "I will go with you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good evening, Hans.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"She gave me nothing, she came with me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I led her by the rope, tied her to the rack, and scattered some grass for her."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the dog snapped it up, and scrambled away with it into a corner, where he soon ate it all up.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the dog had eaten this too, the sparrow said to him, "Well, my good friend, have you had enough now?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I have had plenty of meat," answered he, "but I should like to have a piece of bread to eat after it."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Come with me then," said the sparrow, "and you shall soon have that too."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," said he; "and now let us take a walk a little way out of the town."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last he looked round, and saw that the cart was dripping, and the cask quite empty.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Away ran the husband upstairs, and saw thousands of birds sitting upon the floor eating up his corn, with the sparrow in the midst of them.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	There was once a forester who went into the forest to hunt, and as he entered it he heard a sound of screaming as if a little child were there.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He followed the sound, and at last came to a high tree, and at the top of this a little child was sitting, for the mother had fallen asleep under the tree with the child, and a bird of prey had seen it in her arms, had flown down, snatched it away, and set it on the high tree.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The forester climbed up, brought the child down, and thought to himself: "You will take him home with you, and bring him up with your Lina."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Fundevogel said: "Neither now, nor ever will I leave you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Fundevogel said: "Neither now, nor ever."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the three servants came to the forest, nothing was there but a rose-tree and one rose on it, but the children were nowhere.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Fundevogel said: "Neither now; nor ever."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So when the three servants came, nothing was there but a church, with a chandelier in it.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	And now the old cook herself got on her legs, and went with the three servants in pursuit of the children.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then said Fundevogel: "Neither now, nor ever."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the children went home together, and were heartily delighted, and if they have not died, they are living still.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	His son and his son"s wife were disgusted at this, so the old grandfather at last had to sit in the corner behind the stove, and they gave him his food in an earthenware bowl, and not even enough of it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they took the old grandfather to the table, and henceforth always let him eat with them, and likewise said nothing if he did spill a little of anything.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the queen took pity on the little fish, and threw it back again into the river; and before it swam away it lifted its head out of the water and said, "I know what your wish is, and it shall be fulfilled, in return for your kindness to me--you will soon have a daughter."
joy	fairytale_sentences	What the little fish had foretold soon came to pass; and the queen had a little girl, so very beautiful that the king could not cease looking on it for joy, and said he would hold a great feast and make merry, and show the child to all the land.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So twelve fairies came, each with a high red cap on her head, and red shoes with high heels on her feet, and a long white wand in her hand: and after the feast was over they gathered round in a ring and gave all their best gifts to the little princess.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	In the door there was a golden key, and when she turned it the door sprang open, and there sat an old lady spinning away very busily.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why, how now, good mother," said the princess; "what are you doing there?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How prettily that little thing turns round!" said the princess, and took the spindle and began to try and spin.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	However, she was not dead, but had only fallen into a deep sleep; and the king and the queen, who had just come home, and all their court, fell asleep too; and the horses slept in the stables, and the dogs in the court, the pigeons on the house-top, and the very flies slept upon the walls.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Even the fire on the hearth left off blazing, and went to sleep; the jack stopped, and the spit that was turning about with a goose upon it for the king"s dinner stood still; and the cook, who was at that moment pulling the kitchen-boy by the hair to give him a box on the ear for something he had done amiss, let him go, and both fell asleep; the butler, who was slyly tasting the ale, fell asleep with the jug at his lips: and thus everything stood still, and slept soundly.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Now that very day the hundred years were ended; and as the prince came to the thicket he saw nothing but beautiful flowering shrubs, through which he went with ease, and they shut in after him as thick as ever.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She looked so beautiful that he could not take his eyes off her, so he stooped down and gave her a kiss.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the moment he kissed her she opened her eyes and awoke, and smiled upon him; and they went out together; and soon the king and queen also awoke, and all the court, and gazed on each other with great wonder.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And the horses shook themselves, and the dogs jumped up and barked; the pigeons took their heads from under their wings, and looked about and flew into the fields; the flies on the walls buzzed again; the fire in the kitchen blazed up; round went the jack, and round went the spit, with the goose for the king"s dinner upon it; the butler finished his draught of ale; the maid went on plucking the fowl; and the cook gave the boy the box on his ear.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And then the prince and Briar Rose were married, and the wedding feast was given; and they lived happily together all their lives long.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Kate!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last it popped into her head, "The dog is not shut up--he may be running away with the steak; that"s well thought of."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So up she ran from the cellar; and sure enough the rascally cur had got the steak in his mouth, and was making off with it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Now all this time the ale was running too, for Catherine had not turned the cock; and when the jug was full the liquor ran upon the floor till the cask was empty.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When she got to the cellar stairs she saw what had happened.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"My stars!" said she, "what shall I do to keep Frederick from seeing all this slopping about?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What a lucky thing," said she, "that we kept that meal! we have now a good use for it."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So away she went for it: but she managed to set it down just upon the great jug full of beer, and upset it; and thus all the ale that had been saved was set swimming on the floor also.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she strewed the meal all about the cellar, and was quite pleased with her cleverness, and said, "How very neat and clean it looks!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The husband thought to himself, "If my wife manages matters thus, I must look sharp myself."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now he had a good deal of gold in the house: so he said to Catherine, "What pretty yellow buttons these are!
joy	fairytale_sentences	So the rogues went: and when they found what these yellow buttons were, they took them all away, and left her plenty of plates and dishes.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then she set them all about the house for a show: and when Frederick came back, he cried out, "Kate, what have you been doing?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"See," said she, "I have bought all these with your yellow buttons: but I did not touch them myself; the pedlars went themselves and dug them up."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Catherine stood musing for a while, and at last said to her husband, "Hark ye, Frederick, we will soon get the gold back: let us run after the thieves."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well, we will try," answered he; "but take some butter and cheese with you, that we may have something to eat by the way."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Very well," said she; and they set out: and as Frederick walked the fastest, he left his wife some way behind.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"It does not matter," thought she: "when we turn back, I shall be so much nearer home than he."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Catherine looked, but could not see where it had gone; so she said, "Well, I suppose the other will go the same way and find you; he has younger legs than I have."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Where are the butter and cheese?" said he.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh!" answered she, "I used the butter to grease those poor trees that the wheels chafed so: and one of the cheeses ran away so I sent the other after it to find it, and I suppose they are both on the road together somewhere."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"No," answered she, "you did not tell me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Catherine did as he told her, and thought to herself by the way, "Frederick wants something to eat; but I don"t think he is very fond of butter and cheese: I"ll bring him a bag of fine nuts, and the vinegar, for I have often seen him take some."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When she reached home, she bolted the back door, but the front door she took off the hinges, and said, "Frederick told me to lock the door, but surely it can nowhere be so safe if I take it with me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she took her time by the way; and when she overtook her husband she cried out, "There, Frederick, there is the door itself, you may watch it as carefully as you please."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Scarcely were they up, than who should come by but the very rogues they were looking for.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he climbed up again, and tried to hit the thieves on the head with them: but they only said, "It must be near morning, for the wind shakes the fir-apples down."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So she poured all the vinegar down; and the thieves said, "What a heavy dew there is!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	So when Frederick and Catherine came down, there they found all their money safe and sound.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	A great king of a land far away in the East had a daughter who was very beautiful, but so proud, and haughty, and conceited, that none of the princes who came to ask her in marriage was good enough for her, and she only made sport of them.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The first was too fat: "He"s as round as a tub," said she.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The next was too short: "What a dumpling!" said she.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The fourth was too pale, and she called him "Wallface."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The fifth was too red, so she called him "Coxcomb."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The sixth was not straight enough; so she said he was like a green stick, that had been laid to dry over a baker"s oven.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	And thus she had some joke to crack upon every one: but she laughed more than all at a good king who was there.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Look at him," said she; "his beard is like an old mop; he shall be called Grisly-beard."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the king said, "You have sung so well, that I will give you my daughter for your wife."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Whose are these beautiful green meadows?" said she.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Whose is this noble city?" said she.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What do we want with servants?" said he; "you must do for yourself whatever is to be done.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At first the trade went well; for many people, seeing such a beautiful woman, went to buy her wares, and paid their money without thinking of taking away the goods.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She had not been there long before she heard that the king"s eldest son was passing by, going to be married; and she went to one of the windows and looked out.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Everything was ready, and all the pomp and brightness of the court was there.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the servants gave her some of the rich meats, which she put into her basket to take home.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I am the fiddler who has lived with you in the hut.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I brought you there because I really loved you.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I am also the soldier that overset your stall.
joy	fairytale_sentences	I have done all this only to cure you of your silly pride, and to show you the folly of your ill-treatment of me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now all is over: you have learnt wisdom, and it is time to hold our marriage feast."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the chamberlains came and brought her the most beautiful robes; and her father and his whole court were there already, and welcomed her home on her marriage.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Joy was in every face and every heart.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The feast was grand; they danced and sang; all were merry; and I only wish that you and I had been of the party.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Her own child, whose head she had cut off, bathed in her blood.
joy	fairytale_sentences	As they were now set free, Roland said: "Now I will go to my father and arrange for the wedding."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Then in the meantime I will stay here and wait for you," said the girl, "and that no one may recognize me, I will change myself into a red stone landmark."
joy	fairytale_sentences	But when Roland got home, he fell into the snares of another, who so fascinated him that he forgot the maiden.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When he arose in the morning, all the work was already done, the room was swept, the table and benches cleaned, the fire in the hearth was lighted, and the water was fetched, and at noon, when he came home, the table was laid, and a good dinner served.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He could not conceive how this came to pass, for he never saw a human being in his house, and no one could have concealed himself in it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Instantly the transformation came to an end, and a beautiful girl stood before him, who admitted to him that she had been the flower, and that up to this time she had attended to his house-keeping.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And now the time drew near when Roland"s wedding was to be celebrated, and then, according to an old custom in the country, it was announced that all the girls were to be present at it, and sing in honour of the bridal pair.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But when she began her song, and it reached Roland"s ears, he sprang up and cried: "I know the voice, that is the true bride, I will have no other!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Everything he had forgotten, and which had vanished from his mind, had suddenly come home again to his heart.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the faithful maiden held her wedding with her sweetheart Roland, and grief came to an end and joy began.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And this was the little grey man"s doing.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So they sat down, and when Dummling pulled out his cinder-cake, it was a fine sweet cake, and the sour beer had become good wine.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So they ate and drank, and after that the little man said: "Since you have a good heart, and are willing to divide what you have, I will give you good luck.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Dummling went and cut down the tree, and when it fell there was a goose sitting in the roots with feathers of pure gold.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He lifted her up, and taking her with him, went to an inn where he thought he would stay the night.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The eldest thought: "I shall soon find an opportunity of pulling out a feather," and as soon as Dummling had gone out she seized the goose by the wing, but her finger and hand remained sticking fast to it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The second came soon afterwards, thinking only of how she might get a feather for herself, but she had scarcely touched her sister than she was held fast.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At the same time he seized the youngest by the hand in order to pull her away, but as soon as he touched her he likewise stuck fast, and was himself obliged to run behind.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Before long the sexton came by and saw his master, the parson, running behind three girls.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Do not forget that we have a christening today!" and running after him he took him by the sleeve, but was also held fast to it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But they had scarcely touched the sexton when they were held fast, and now there were seven of them running behind Dummling and the goose.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When Dummling heard this, he went with his goose and all her train before the king"s daughter, and as soon as she saw the seven people running on and on, one behind the other, she began to laugh quite loudly, and as if she would never stop.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Dummling thought of the little grey man, who could certainly help him; so he went into the forest, and in the same place where he had felled the tree, he saw a man sitting, who had a very sorrowful face.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"There, I can help you," said Dummling, "just come with me and you shall be satisfied."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He led him into the king"s cellar, and the man bent over the huge barrels, and drank and drank till his loins hurt, and before the day was out he had emptied all the barrels.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At this Dummling was glad, and said: "Get up and come with me; you shall eat yourself full."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The man from the forest stood before it, began to eat, and by the end of one day the whole mountain had vanished.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Dummling went straight into the forest, and there sat the little grey man to whom he had given his cake.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When he heard what Dummling wanted, he said: "Since you have given me to eat and to drink, I will give you the ship; and I do all this because you once were kind to me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wedding was celebrated, and after the king"s death, Dummling inherited his kingdom and lived for a long time contentedly with his wife.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"What does the good-for-nothing want in the parlour?" said they; "they who would eat bread should first earn it; away with the kitchen-maid!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then they took away her fine clothes, and gave her an old grey frock to put on, and laughed at her, and turned her into the kitchen.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"You, Ashputtel!" said she; "you who have nothing to wear, no clothes at all, and who cannot even dance--you want to go to the ball?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Ashputtel brought the dish to her mother, overjoyed at the thought that now she should go to the ball.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And thus she thought she should at least get rid of her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And then Ashputtel took the dishes to her mother, rejoicing to think that she should now go to the ball.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But her mother said, "It is all of no use, you cannot go; you have no clothes, and cannot dance, and you would only put us to shame": and off she went with her two daughters to the ball.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Thus they danced till a late hour of the night; and then she wanted to go home: and the king"s son said, "I shall go and take care of you to your home"; for he wanted to see where the beautiful maiden lived.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The father thought to himself, "Can it be Ashputtel?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then both the sisters were overjoyed to hear it; for they had beautiful feet, and had no doubt that they could wear the golden slipper.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	So the silly girl cut off her great toe, and thus squeezed on the shoe, and went to the king"s son.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the prince got down and looked at her foot; and he saw, by the blood that streamed from it, what a trick she had played him.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	So he turned his horse round, and brought the false bride back to her home, and said, "This is not the right bride; let the other sister try and put on the slipper."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But her mother squeezed it in till the blood came, and took her to the king"s son: and he set her as his bride by his side on his horse, and rode away with her.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he looked down, and saw that the blood streamed so much from the shoe, that her white stockings were quite red.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"This is not the true bride," said he to the father; "have you no other daughters?"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"No," said he; "there is only a little dirty Ashputtel here, the child of my first wife; I am sure she cannot be the bride."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the mother said, "No, no, she is much too dirty; she will not dare to show herself."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And when he drew near and looked at her face he knew her, and said, "This is the right bride."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Now--odd as you may think it--it came to pass that this good woman"s wish was fulfilled, just in the very way she had wished it; for, not long afterwards, she had a little boy, who was quite healthy and strong, but was not much bigger than my thumb.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So they said, "Well, we cannot say we have not got what we wished for, and, little as he is, we will love him dearly."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	They gave him plenty of food, yet for all they could do he never grew bigger, but kept just the same size as he had been when he was born.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Still, his eyes were sharp and sparkling, and he soon showed himself to be a clever little fellow, who always knew well what he was about.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, father," cried Tom, "I will take care of that; the cart shall be in the wood by the time you want it."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind that, father," said Tom; "if my mother will only harness the horse, I will get into his ear and tell him which way to go."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the time came the mother harnessed the horse to the cart, and put Tom into his ear; and as he sat there the little man told the beast how to go, crying out, "Go on!" and "Stop!" as he wanted: and thus the horse went on just as well as if the woodman had driven it himself into the wood.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"What an odd thing that is!" said one: "there is a cart going along, and I hear a carter talking to the horse, but yet I can see no one."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"That is queer, indeed," said the other; "let us follow the cart, and see where it goes."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Tom Thumb, seeing his father, cried out, "See, father, here I am with the cart, all right and safe! now take me down!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	So his father took hold of the horse with one hand, and with the other took his son out of the horse"s ear, and put him down upon a straw, where he sat as merry as you please.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The two strangers were all this time looking on, and did not know what to say for wonder.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But Tom, hearing of the bargain they wanted to make, crept up his father"s coat to his shoulder and whispered in his ear, "Take the money, father, and let them have me; I"ll soon come back to you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, put me on the rim of your hat; that will be a nice gallery for me; I can walk about there and see the country as we go along."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good night, my masters!" said he, "I"m off! mind and look sharp after me the next time."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"This is lucky," said he, "I can sleep here very well"; and in he crept.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I"ll tell you!" cried Tom.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But where are you?" said they.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last the thieves found him out, and lifted him up in their hands.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Why, I can get between the iron window-bars of the parson"s house, and throw you out whatever you want."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The cook got up early, before daybreak, to feed the cows; and going straight to the hay-loft, carried away a large bundle of hay, with the little man in the middle of it, fast asleep.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He still, however, slept on, and did not awake till he found himself in the mouth of the cow; for the cook had put the hay into the cow"s rick, and the cow had taken Tom up in a mouthful of it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Good lack-a-day!" said he, "how came I to tumble into the mill?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Though he made the best of his bad luck, he did not like his quarters at all; and the worst of it was, that more and more hay was always coming down, and the space left for him became smaller and smaller.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Tom soon set himself to work to get out, which was not a very easy task; but at last, just as he had made room to get his head out, fresh ill-luck befell him.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	A hungry wolf sprang out, and swallowed up the whole stomach, with Tom in it, at one gulp, and ran away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Tom, however, was still not disheartened; and thinking the wolf would not dislike having some chat with him as he was going along, he called out, "My good friend, I can show you a famous treat."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Where"s that?" said the wolf.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wolf did not want to be asked twice; so that very night he went to the house and crawled through the drain into the kitchen, and then into the pantry, and ate and drank there to his heart"s content.
joy	fairytale_sentences	This was just what Tom had reckoned upon; and now he began to set up a great shout, making all the noise he could.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What"s that to me?" said the little man; "you have had your frolic, now I"ve a mind to be merry myself"; and he began, singing and shouting as loud as he could.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Tom heard all this, and cried out, "Father, father!
joy	fairytale_sentences	And his father said, "Heaven be praised! we have found our dear child again"; and he told his wife not to use the scythe for fear she should hurt him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he aimed a great blow, and struck the wolf on the head, and killed him on the spot! and when he was dead they cut open his body, and set Tommy free.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the father, "what fears we have had for you!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, father," answered he; "I have travelled all over the world, I think, in one way or other, since we parted; and now I am very glad to come home and get fresh air again."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Why, where have you been?" said his father.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I have been in a mouse-hole--and in a snail-shell--and down a cow"s throat-- and in the wolf"s belly; and yet here I am again, safe and sound."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," said they, "you are come back, and we will not sell you again for all the riches in the world."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then they hugged and kissed their dear little son, and gave him plenty to eat and drink, for he was very hungry; and then they fetched new clothes for him, for his old ones had been quite spoiled on his journey.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So Master Thumb stayed at home with his father and mother, in peace; for though he had been so great a traveller, and had done and seen so many fine things, and was fond enough of telling the whole story, he always agreed that, after all, there"s no place like HOME!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then their brother, who was a little insignificant dwarf, went out to seek for his brothers: but when he had found them they only laughed at him, to think that he, who was so young and simple, should try to travel through the world, when they, who were so much wiser, had been unable to get on.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the little dwarf said, "Let the poor things enjoy themselves, I will not suffer you to trouble them."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the dwarf said, "Let the poor things enjoy themselves, you shall not kill them."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the dwarf held them back, and said, "Let the pretty insects enjoy themselves, I cannot let you burn them."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the dwarf married the youngest and the best of the princesses, and was king after her father"s death; but his two brothers married the other two sisters.
joy	fairytale_sentences	A certain cat had made the acquaintance of a mouse, and had said so much to her about the great love and friendship she felt for her, that at length the mouse agreed that they should live and keep house together.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, yes," answered the mouse, "by all means go, and if you get anything very good to eat, think of me.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	All this, however, was untrue; the cat had no cousin, and had not been asked to be godmother.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she took a walk upon the roofs of the town, looked out for opportunities, and then stretched herself in the sun, and licked her lips whenever she thought of the pot of fat, and not until it was evening did she return home.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"All went off well," answered the cat.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Top off!" cried the mouse, "that is a very odd and uncommon name, is it a usual one in your family?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Nothing ever seems so good as what one keeps to oneself," said she, and was quite satisfied with her day"s work.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	What are you saying?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	I never heard the name in my life, I"ll wager anything it is not in the calendar!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"When everything is eaten up one has some peace," said she to herself, and well filled and fat she did not return home till night.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"All-gone," cried the mouse "that is the most suspicious name of all!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	I have never seen it in print.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	All-gone; what can that mean?" and she shook her head, curled herself up, and lay down to sleep.
joy	fairytale_sentences	From this time forth no one invited the cat to be godmother, but when the winter had come and there was no longer anything to be found outside, the mouse thought of their provision, and said: "Come, cat, we will go to our pot of fat which we have stored up for ourselves--we shall enjoy that."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said the mouse, "now I see what has happened, now it comes to light!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	You a true friend!
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah," sighed the woman heavily, "if I had but a child, as red as blood and as white as snow," and as she spoke the words, her heart grew light within her, and it seemed to her that her wish was granted, and she returned to the house feeling glad and comforted.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Once again the wife stood under the juniper-tree, and it was so full of sweet scent that her heart leaped for joy, and she was so overcome with her happiness, that she fell on her knees.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she felt comforted and happy again, and before another month had passed she had a little child, and when she saw that it was as white as snow and as red as blood, her joy was so great that she died.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He now had a little daughter born to him; the child of his first wife was a boy, who was as red as blood and as white as snow.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Mother," said the little daughter again, "may not brother have one too?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So little Marleen went, and said, "Brother, give me that apple," but he did not say a word; then she gave him a box on the ear, and his head rolled off.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Presently the father came home and sat down to his dinner; he asked, "Where is my son?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	With this he went on with his dinner, and said, "Little Marleen, why do you weep?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she laid them in the green grass under the junipertree, and she had no sooner done so, then all her sadness seemed to leave her, and she wept no more.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Little Marleen now felt as lighthearted and happy as if her brother were still alive, and she went back to the house and sat down cheerfully to the table and ate.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	But he ran on into the middle of the street, with a slipper on one foot and a sock on the other; he still had on his apron, and still held the gold chain and the pincers in his hands, and so he stood gazing up at the bird, while the sun came shining brightly down on the street.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Bird," he said, "how beautifully you sing!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The bird flew down and took the gold chain in his right claw, and then he alighted again in front of the goldsmith and sang:
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The shoemaker heard him, and he jumped up and ran out in his shirtsleeves, and stood looking up at the bird on the roof with his hand over his eyes to keep himself from being blinded by the sun.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Bird," he said, "how beautifully you sing!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he called through the door to his wife: "Wife, come out; here is a bird, come and look at it and hear how beautifully it sings."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he called his daughter and the children, then the apprentices, girls and boys, and they all ran up the street to look at the bird, and saw how splendid it was with its red and green feathers, and its neck like burnished gold, and eyes like two bright stars in its head.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	two more men left off and listened,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	then four more left off,
joy	fairytale_sentences	Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	then he looked up and the last one had left off work.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Bird," he said, "what a beautiful song that is you sing!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Let me hear it too; sing it again."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My mother killed her little son; My father grieved when I was gone; My sister loved me best of all; She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And when he had finished his song, he spread his wings, and with the chain in his right claw, the shoes in his left, and the millstone round his neck, he flew right away to his father"s house.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How lighthearted I feel," said the father, "so pleased and cheerful."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I do feel so happy," said the father, "and how beautifully the sun shines; I feel just as if I were going to see an old friend again."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Look, mother," said the man, "at the beautiful bird that is singing so magnificently; and how warm and bright the sun is, and what a delicious scent of spice in the air!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	My sister loved me best of all;
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I must go outside and see the bird nearer," said the man.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She laid her kerchief over me, And took my bones that they might lie Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	He went inside, and said, "See, what a splendid bird that is; he has given me this beautiful gold chain, and looks so beautiful himself."
joy	fairytale_sentences	My sister loved me best of all;
joy	fairytale_sentences	Underneath the juniper-tree Kywitt, Kywitt, what a beautiful bird am I!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And she now felt quite happy and lighthearted; she put on the shoes and danced and jumped about in them.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I was so miserable," she said, "when I came out, but that has all passed away; that is indeed a splendid bird, and he has given me a pair of red shoes."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But as she crossed the threshold, crash! the bird threw the millstone down on her head, and she was crushed to death.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The father and little Marleen heard the sound and ran out, but they only saw mist and flame and fire rising from the spot, and when these had passed, there stood the little brother, and he took the father and little Marleen by the hand; then they all three rejoiced, and went inside together and sat down to their dinners and ate.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the courtiers heard this they were shocked, and said, "Heaven forbid that a father should marry his daughter!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And his daughter was also shocked, but hoped the king would soon give up such thoughts; so she said to him, "Before I marry anyone I must have three dresses: one must be of gold, like the sun; another must be of shining silver, like the moon; and a third must be dazzling as the stars: besides this, I want a mantle of a thousand different kinds of fur put together, to which every beast in the kingdom must give a part of his skin."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Look sharp!" said the king to the huntsmen, "and see what sort of game lies there."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And the huntsmen went up to the tree, and when they came back again said, "In the hollow tree there lies a most wonderful beast, such as we never saw before; its skin seems to be of a thousand kinds of fur, but there it lies fast asleep."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"See," said the king, "if you can catch it alive, and we will take it with us."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Everyone made way for her, for nobody knew her, and they thought she could be no less than a king"s daughter.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the king came up to her, and held out his hand and danced with her; and he thought in his heart, "I never saw any one half so beautiful."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the dance was at an end she curtsied; and when the king looked round for her, she was gone, no one knew wither.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The guards that stood at the castle gate were called in: but they had seen no one.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the dance was over, the king ordered his soup to be brought in; and it pleased him so well, that he thought he had never tasted any so good before.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At the bottom he saw a gold ring lying; and as he could not make out how it had got there, he ordered the cook to be sent for.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the king said, "That is not true; it was better done than you could do it."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But how did you get the ring that was in the soup?" asked the king.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she ran to her little cabin, washed herself quickly, and took her dress out which was silvery as the moon, and put it on; and when she went in, looking like a king"s daughter, the king went up to her, and rejoiced at seeing her again, and when the dance began he danced with her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Whilst the cook was above stairs, she got the golden necklace and dropped it into the soup; then it was brought to the king, who ate it, and it pleased him as well as before; so he sent for the cook, who was again forced to tell him that Cat-skin had cooked it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she put on her dress which sparkled like the stars, and went into the ball-room in it; and the king danced with her again, and thought she had never looked so beautiful as she did then.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When it was at an end, he would have held her fast by the hand, but she slipped away, and sprang so quickly through the crowd that he lost sight of her: and she ran as fast as she could into her little cabin under the stairs.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the king got to the bottom, he ordered Cat-skin to be called once more, and soon saw the white finger, and the ring that he had put on it whilst they were dancing: so he seized her hand, and kept fast hold of it, and when she wanted to loose herself and spring away, the fur cloak fell off a little on one side, and the starry dress sparkled underneath it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he got hold of the fur and tore it off, and her golden hair and beautiful form were seen, and she could no longer hide herself: so she washed the soot and ashes from her face, and showed herself to be the most beautiful princess upon the face of the earth.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the king said, "You are my beloved bride, and we will never more be parted from each other."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the wedding feast was held, and a merry day it was, as ever was heard of or seen in that country, or indeed in any other.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"With all my heart," said Partlet, "let us go and make a holiday of it together."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"That"s a good joke!" said Chanticleer; "no, that will never do; I had rather by half walk home; I"ll sit on the box and be coachman, if you like, but I"ll not draw."
joy	fairytale_sentences	It happened that the cat met the fox in a forest, and as she thought to herself: "He is clever and full of experience, and much esteemed in the world," she spoke to him in a friendly way.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Good day, dear Mr Fox, how are you?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The fox, full of all kinds of arrogance, looked at the cat from head to foot, and for a long time did not know whether he would give any answer or not.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	What have you learnt?
joy	fairytale_sentences	But this queen died; and the king soon married another wife, who became queen, and was very beautiful, but so vain that she could not bear to think that anyone could be handsomer than she was.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Thou, queen, art the fairest in all the land."
joy	fairytale_sentences	But Snowdrop grew more and more beautiful; and when she was seven years old she was as bright as the day, and fairer than the queen herself.
joy	fairytale_sentences	So she tried all the little beds; but one was too long, and another was too short, till at last the seventh suited her: and there she laid herself down and went to sleep.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But the seventh saw Snowdrop, and called all his brethren to come and see her; and they cried out with wonder and astonishment and brought their lamps to look at her, and said, "Good heavens! what a lovely child she is!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	And they were very glad to see her, and took care not to wake her; and the seventh dwarf slept an hour with each of the other dwarfs in turn, till the night was gone.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I will let the old lady in; she seems to be a very good sort of body," thought Snowdrop, as she ran down and unbolted the door.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Snowdrop did not dream of any mischief; so she stood before the old woman; but she set to work so nimbly, and pulled the lace so tight, that Snowdrop"s breath was stopped, and she fell down as if she were dead.
joy	fairytale_sentences	However, they lifted her up, and when they found what ailed her, they cut the lace; and in a little time she began to breathe, and very soon came to life again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And it looked so pretty, that she took it up and put it into her hair to try it; but the moment it touched her head, the poison was so powerful that she fell down senseless.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"There you may lie," said the queen, and went her way.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"This time nothing will save thee," said the queen; and she went home to her glass, and at last it said:
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Thou, queen, art the fairest of all the fair."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And then her wicked heart was glad, and as happy as such a heart could be.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last a prince came and called at the dwarfs" house; and he saw Snowdrop, and read what was written in golden letters.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the prince said, "Thou art quite safe with me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he told her all that had happened, and said, "I love you far better than all the world; so come with me to my father"s palace, and you shall be my wife."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And Snowdrop consented, and went home with the prince; and everything was got ready with great pomp and splendour for their wedding.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the King heard that he owed the victory to him alone, he raised him above all the others, gave him great treasures, and made him the first in the kingdom.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"But dost thou know what thou must promise?" said the King.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I must be buried with her," he replied, "if I outlive her, but my love is so great that I do not mind the danger."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Thou art with me, dear wife," he answered, and told her how everything had happened, and how he had brought her back again to life.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The King came down himself and opened the door, and there he found both strong and well, and rejoiced with them that now all sorrow was over.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the shameful deed was done, she said, "Now let us return home, and say that he died on the way.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He was astonished when he saw them come alone, and asked what had happened to them.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	When he learnt the wickedness of his daughter he said, "I cannot believe that she has behaved so ill, but the truth will soon come to light," and bade both go into a secret chamber and keep themselves hidden from every one.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	The King said, "There is no mercy.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	He was ready to die with thee and restored thee to life again, but thou hast murdered him in his sleep, and shalt receive the reward that thou deservest."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, ho!" said the man, "you need not make so many words about the matter; I will have nothing to do with a fish that can talk: so swim away, sir, as soon as you please!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Come in, come in!" said she; "is not this much better than the filthy pigsty we had?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the fisherman, "how happily we shall live now!"
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Everything went right for a week or two, and then Dame Ilsabill said, "Husband, there is not near room enough for us in this cottage; the courtyard and the garden are a great deal too small; I should like to have a large stone castle to live in: go to the fish again and tell him to give us a castle."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"See," said she, "is not this grand?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well," said the man, "now we will live cheerful and happy in this beautiful castle for the rest of our lives."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And when he had looked at her for a long time, he said, "Ah, wife! what a fine thing it is to be king!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Now we shall never have anything more to wish for as long as we live."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the man, as he gazed upon her, "what a fine thing it is to be emperor!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well, wife," replied he, "it is a grand thing to be pope; and now you must be easy, for you can be nothing greater."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she said, "Yes," and the two ministers married the two sisters, for they were all three fair and beautiful of face, especially the Queen, who had hair like flax.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When a year had gone by, the King again went away, and the Queen had another little boy, whom the false sisters likewise took and threw into the water.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"To thy death art thou sped, Until God"s word be said.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"To thy death art thou sped Until God"s word be said.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Many thanks," said she.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Many thanks," replied the old woman.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the old woman heard that, she became quite friendly, and carried her over the water, gave her a wand, and said to her, "Go, my daughter, ever onwards by this road, and when you come to a great black dog, you must pass it silently and boldly, without either laughing or looking at it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The maiden found everything exactly as the old woman had said, and on her way back she found her two brothers who had sought each other over half the world.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	They went together to the place where the black dog was lying on the road; she struck it in the face, and it turned into a handsome prince who went with them to the river.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She rejoiced much to see them again, and carried them all over the water, and then she too went away, for now she was freed.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The others, however, went to the old fisherman, and all were glad that they had found each other again, but they hung the bird on the wall.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the daughter gave her some of the water of the fountain to drink, and she became strong and healthy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the two false sisters were burnt, and the daughter married the prince.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	When the seed came up, there was one plant bigger than all the rest; and it kept getting larger and larger, and seemed as if it would never cease growing; so that it might have been called the prince of turnips for there never was such a one seen before, and never will again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	At last it was so big that it filled a cart, and two oxen could hardly draw it; and the gardener knew not what in the world to do with it, nor whether it would be a blessing or a curse to him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What a wonderful thing!" said the king; "I have seen many strange things, but such a monster as this I never saw.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Where did you get the seed? or is it only your good luck?
surprise	fairytale_sentences	If so, you are a true child of fortune."
joy	fairytale_sentences	I will give you so much that you shall be even richer than your brother."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he gave him gold and lands and flocks, and made him so rich that his brother"s fortune could not at all be compared with his.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The other had no suspicions of his roguery: so they went out together, and as they were travelling along, the murderers rushed out upon him, bound him, and were going to hang him on a tree.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the horseman came up, he proved to be a student, a merry fellow, who was journeying along on his nag, and singing as he went.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As soon as the man in the sack saw him passing under the tree, he cried out, "Good morning! good morning to thee, my friend!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the man in the tree answered, "Lift up thine eyes, for behold here I sit in the sack of wisdom; here have I, in a short time, learned great and wondrous things.
joy	fairytale_sentences	A little longer, and I shall know all that man can know, and shall come forth wiser than the wisest of mankind.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Here I discern the signs and motions of the heavens and the stars; the laws that control the winds; the number of the sands on the seashore; the healing of the sick; the virtues of all simples, of birds, and of precious stones.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Wert thou but once here, my friend, though wouldst feel and own the power of knowledge.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The student listened to all this and wondered much; at last he said, "Blessed be the day and hour when I found you; cannot you contrive to let me into the sack for a little while?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the other answered, as if very unwillingly, "A little space I may allow thee to sit here, if thou wilt reward me well and entreat me kindly; but thou must tarry yet an hour below, till I have learnt some little matters that are yet unknown to me."
joy	fairytale_sentences	So the student let him down, opened the sack, and set him free.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he pushed him in head first, tied up the sack, and soon swung up the searcher after wisdom dangling in the air.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"How is it with thee, friend?" said he, "dost thou not feel that wisdom comes unto thee?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Rest there in peace, till thou art a wiser man than thou wert."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The mother, however, loved the ugly and lazy one best, because she was her own daughter, and so the other, who was only her stepdaughter, was made to do all the work of the house, and was quite the Cinderella of the family.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she carefully gathered the apples together in a heap and walked on again.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The old woman spoke so kindly, that the girl summoned up courage and agreed to enter into her service.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The old woman was as good as her word: she never spoke angrily to her, and gave her roast and boiled meats every day.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then Mother Holle said, "I am pleased that you should want to go back to your own people, and as you have served me so well and faithfully, I will take you home myself."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then she went in to her mother and sister, and as she was so richly covered with gold, they gave her a warm welcome.
joy	fairytale_sentences	She related to them all that had happened, and when the mother heard how she had come by her great riches, she thought she should like her ugly, lazy daughter to go and try her fortune.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But the lazy girl answered, "Do you think I am going to dirty my hands for you?" and walked on.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	But she only answered, "A nice thing to ask me to do, one of the apples might fall on my head," and passed on.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At last she came to Mother Holle"s house, and as she had heard all about the large teeth from her sister, she was not afraid of them, and engaged herself without delay to the old woman.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The first day she was very obedient and industrious, and exerted herself to please Mother Holle, for she thought of the gold she should get in return.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Worse still, she neglected to make the old woman"s bed properly, and forgot to shake it so that the feathers might fly about.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The lazy girl was delighted at this, and thought to herself, "The gold will soon be mine."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"That is in return for your services," said the old woman, and she shut the gate.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Your dirty daughter"s come back to you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	When she was below she fetched herself a chair, and set it before the barrel so that she had no need to stoop, and did not hurt her back or do herself any unexpected injury.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Come," said Hans, "more understanding than that is not needed for my household, as you are such a clever Elsie, I will have you," and seized her hand, took her upstairs with him, and married her.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Hans had been at home for a long time, but Elsie did not come; then said he: "What a clever Elsie I have; she is so industrious that she does not even come home to eat."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But when evening came and she still stayed away, Hans went out to see what she had cut, but nothing was cut, and she was lying among the corn asleep.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Well, father," he replied, "I am quite willing to learn something-- indeed, if it could but be managed, I should like to learn how to shudder.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"If that be all," replied the sexton, "he can learn that with me.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The father was glad to do it, for he thought: "It will train the boy a little."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Who is there?" cried he, but the figure made no reply, and did not move or stir.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The sexton thought: "He can"t mean to be as bad as his words," uttered no sound and stood as if he were made of stone.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"No, I don"t know," replied the boy, "but someone was standing by the sounding hole on the other side of the steps, and as he would neither gave an answer nor go away, I took him for a scoundrel, and threw him downstairs.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"If that is all that is wanted," answered the youth, "it is easily done; but if I learn how to shudder as fast as that, you shall have my fifty talers.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But they sat there and did not stir, and the fire caught their clothes.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the man saw that he would not get the fifty talers that day, and went away saying: "Such a youth has never come my way before."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The host who heard this, laughed and said: "If that is your desire, there ought to be a good opportunity for you here."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the youth went next morning to the king, and said: "If it be allowed, I will willingly watch three nights in the haunted castle."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king looked at him, and as the youth pleased him, he said: "You may ask for three things to take into the castle with you, but they must be things without life."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh," said he, "what long nails you have!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he looked round and saw a great bed in the corner.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That is the very thing for me," said he, and got into it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"That"s right," said he, "but go faster."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the bed rolled on as if six horses were harnessed to it, up and down, over thresholds and stairs, but suddenly hop, hop, it turned over upside down, and lay on him like a mountain.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The youth heard it, got up, and said: "It has not come to that yet."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Very well indeed," answered he; "one night is past, the two others will pass likewise."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he went to the innkeeper, who opened his eyes very wide, and said: "I never expected to see you alive again!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Have you learnt how to shudder yet?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hullo!" cried he, "another half belongs to this.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The youth also wanted to play and said: "Listen you, can I join you?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Money enough," replied he, "but your balls are not quite round."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"There, now they will roll better!" said he.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Hurrah! now we"ll have fun!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	He played with them and lost some of his money, but when it struck twelve, everything vanished from his sight.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"How has it fared with you this time?" asked he.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Have you not shuddered then?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"What?" said he, "I have had a wonderful time!
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he said: "Ha, ha, that is certainly my little cousin, who died only a few days ago," and he beckoned with his finger, and cried: "Come, little cousin, come."
disgust	fairytale_sentences	He felt his face, but it was cold as ice.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Wait," said he, "I will warm you a little," and went to the fire and warmed his hand and laid it on the dead man"s face, but he remained cold.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then he took him out, and sat down by the fire and laid him on his breast and rubbed his arms that the blood might circulate again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As this also did no good, he thought to himself: "When two people lie in bed together, they warm each other," and carried him to the bed, covered him over and lay down by him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then said the youth, "See, little cousin, have I not warmed you?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Now I have you," said the youth.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The youth drew out the axe and let him go.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The old man led him back into the castle, and in a cellar showed him three chests full of gold.
joy	fairytale_sentences	In the meantime it struck twelve, and the spirit disappeared, so that the youth stood in darkness.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I shall still be able to find my way out," said he, and felt about, found the way into the room, and slept there by his fire.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Then," said the king, "you have saved the castle, and shall marry my daughter."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the gold was brought up and the wedding celebrated; but howsoever much the young king loved his wife, and however happy he was, he still said always: "If I could but shudder--if I could but shudder."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Ah! now I know what it is to shudder!"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then said the little room-door, "Little flea, why art thou screaming?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Because the louse has burnt herself."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little door is creaking."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The ash-heap said, "Then I will burn furiously," and began to burn in clear flames.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little cart is running."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little cart is running, The little ash-heap is burning."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little door is creaking, The little broom is sweeping,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little cart is running, The little ash-heap is burning,
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The little tree is shaking itself."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, ho!" said the spring, "then I will begin to flow," and began to flow violently.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"I know what would," said the little old man; "it is the Water of Life.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But he begged so hard that the king let him go; and the prince thought to himself, "If I bring my father this water, he will make me sole heir to his kingdom."
joy	fairytale_sentences	For he thought to himself, "My brother is surely dead, and the kingdom will fall to me if I find the water."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	So he set out and followed the same road which his brother had done, and met with the same elf, who stopped him at the same spot in the mountains, saying, as before, "Prince, prince, whither so fast?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the second prince had thus been gone a long time, the youngest son said he would go and search for the Water of Life, and trusted he should soon be able to make his father well again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And the prince said, "I am going in search of the Water of Life, because my father is ill, and like to die: can you help me?
joy	fairytale_sentences	Pray tell me if you know."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Then as you have spoken to me kindly, and are wise enough to seek for advice, I will tell you how and where to go.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the prince thanked his little friend with the scarlet cloak for his friendly aid, and took the wand and the bread, and went travelling on and on, over sea and over land, till he came to his journey"s end, and found everything to be as the dwarf had told him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Further on he came to a room where a beautiful young lady sat upon a couch; and she welcomed him joyfully, and said, if he would set her free from the spell that bound her, the kingdom should be his, if he would come back in a year and marry her.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Just as he was going out of the iron door it struck twelve, and the door fell so quickly upon him that it snapped off a piece of his heel.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Their brother, however, was greatly rejoiced to see them, and told them all that had happened to him; how he had found the Water of Life, and had taken a cup full of it; and how he had set a beautiful princess free from a spell that bound her; and how she had engaged to wait a whole year, and then to marry him, and to give him the kingdom.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the prince gave the king of the land the bread, and all his kingdom ate of it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And he lent the king the wonderful sword, and he slew the enemy"s army with it; and thus the kingdom was once more in peace and plenty.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then they waited till he was fast asleep, and poured the Water of Life out of the cup, and took it for themselves, giving him bitter sea-water instead.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Scarcely, however, had he tasted the bitter sea-water when he became worse even than he was before; and then both the elder sons came in, and blamed the youngest for what they had done; and said that he wanted to poison their father, but that they had found the Water of Life, and had brought it with them.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He no sooner began to drink of what they brought him, than he felt his sickness leave him, and was as strong and well as in his younger days.
joy	fairytale_sentences	You have had the trouble and we shall have the reward.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Pray, with all your cleverness, why did not you manage to keep your eyes open?
disgust	fairytale_sentences	You had better say nothing about this to our father, for he does not believe a word you say; and if you tell tales, you shall lose your life into the bargain: but be quiet, and we will let you off."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"With all my heart," said the huntsman; "I am sure I shall be glad to save you, for I could not have shot you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"He is still alive," said the huntsman; "and I am glad that I had pity on him, but let him go in peace, and brought home his royal coat."
joy	fairytale_sentences	At this the king was overwhelmed with joy, and made it known thoughout all his kingdom, that if his son would come back to his court he would forgive him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Meanwhile the princess was eagerly waiting till her deliverer should come back; and had a road made leading up to her palace all of shining gold; and told her courtiers that whoever came on horseback, and rode straight up to the gate upon it, was her true lover; and that they must let him in: but whoever rode on one side of it, they must be sure was not the right one; and that they must send him away at once.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As he came before the palace and saw the golden road, he stopped to look at it, and he thought to himself, "It is a pity to ride upon this beautiful road"; so he turned aside and rode on the right-hand side of it.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The second prince set out soon afterwards on the same errand; and when he came to the golden road, and his horse had set one foot upon it, he stopped to look at it, and thought it very beautiful, and said to himself, "What a pity it is that anything should tread here!"
joy	fairytale_sentences	So he journeyed on, thinking of her all the way, and rode so quickly that he did not even see what the road was made of, but went with his horse straight over it; and as he came to the gate it flew open, and the princess welcomed him with joy, and said he was her deliverer, and should now be her husband and lord of the kingdom.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the first joy at their meeting was over, the princess told him she had heard of his father having forgiven him, and of his wish to have him home again: so, before his wedding with the princess, he went to visit his father, taking her with him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he told him everything; how his brothers had cheated and robbed him, and yet that he had borne all those wrongs for the love of his father.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And now the old king gathered together his court, and asked all his kingdom to come and celebrate the wedding of his son and the princess.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And young and old, noble and squire, gentle and simple, came at once on the summons; and among the rest came the friendly dwarf, with the sugarloaf hat, and a new scarlet cloak.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the wedding was held, and the merry bells run.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And all the good people they danced and they sung, And feasted and frolick"d I can"t tell how long.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	When they could see to the bottom there lay a wild man whose body was brown like rusty iron, and whose hair hung over his face down to his knees.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	There was great astonishment over the wild man; the king, however, had him put in an iron cage in his courtyard, and forbade the door to be opened on pain of death, and the queen herself was to take the key into her keeping.
joy	fairytale_sentences	And from this time forth everyone could again go into the forest with safety.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When it was open the wild man stepped out, gave him the golden ball, and hurried away.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She knew nothing about it, and sought the key, but it was gone.
joy	fairytale_sentences	If you do all I bid you, you shall fare well.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Of treasure and gold have I enough, and more than anyone in the world."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And as he still bent down more and more while he was doing so, and trying to look straight into the eyes, his long hair fell down from his shoulders into the water.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He raised himself up quickly, but the whole of the hair of his head was already golden and shone like the sun.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The people about court did not at all know what use they could make of him, but they liked him, and told him to stay.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	As the sun shone on his hair it glittered and flashed so that the rays fell into the bedroom of the king"s daughter, and up she sprang to see what that could be.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then she saw the boy, and cried to him: "Boy, bring me a wreath of flowers."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	She, however, caught at his cap and pulled it off, and then his golden hair rolled down on his shoulders, and it was splendid to behold.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	He wanted to run out, but she held him by the arm, and gave him a handful of ducats.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He took them to the gardener, and said: "I present them to your children, they can play with them."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The following day the king"s daughter again called to him that he was to bring her a wreath of field-flowers, and then he went in with it, she instantly snatched at his cap, and wanted to take it away from him, but he held it fast with both hands.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The others laughed, and said: "Seek one for yourself when we are gone, we will leave one behind us in the stable for you."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That you shall have, and still more than you ask for."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the wild man went back into the forest, and it was not long before a stable-boy came out of it, who led a horse that snorted with its nostrils, and could hardly be restrained, and behind them followed a great troop of warriors entirely equipped in iron, and their swords flashed in the sun.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The youth made over his three-legged horse to the stable-boy, mounted the other, and rode at the head of the soldiers.
joy	fairytale_sentences	They began to flee, but the youth pursued, and never stopped, until there was not a single man left.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Instead of returning to the king, however, he conducted his troop by byways back to the forest, and called forth Iron Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	All that he asked was done, and soon he was riding on his three-legged horse.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the king returned to his palace, his daughter went to meet him, and wished him joy of his victory.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	The daughter wanted to hear who the strange knight was, but the king did not know, and said: "He followed the enemy, and I did not see him again."
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the feast was announced, the youth went out to the forest, and called Iron Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"That I may catch the king"s daughter"s golden apple."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"It is as safe as if you had it already," said Iron Hans.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"You shall likewise have a suit of red armour for the occasion, and ride on a spirited chestnut-horse."
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the day came, the youth galloped to the spot, took his place amongst the knights, and was recognized by no one.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The king"s daughter came forward, and threw a golden apple to the knights, but none of them caught it but he, only as soon as he had it he galloped away.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Again he was the only one who caught the apple, and he did not linger an instant, but galloped off with it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	On the third day, he received from Iron Hans a suit of black armour and a black horse, and again he caught the apple.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The youth nevertheless escaped from them, but his horse leapt so violently that the helmet fell from the youth"s head, and they could see that he had golden hair.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"He is at work in the garden; the queer creature has been at the festival too, and only came home yesterday evening; he has likewise shown my children three golden apples which he has won."
joy	fairytale_sentences	But the king"s daughter went up to him and took it off, and then his golden hair fell down over his shoulders, and he was so handsome that all were amazed.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Are you the knight who came every day to the festival, always in different colours, and who caught the three golden apples?" asked the king.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," answered he, "and here the apples are," and he took them out of his pocket, and returned them to the king.
joy	fairytale_sentences	But I am likewise the knight who helped you to your victory over your enemies."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"If you can perform such deeds as that, you are no gardener"s boy; tell me, who is your father?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"My father is a mighty king, and gold have I in plenty as great as I require."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"I well see," said the king, "that I owe my thanks to you; can I do anything to please you?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," answered he, "that indeed you can.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The maiden laughed, and said: "He does not stand much on ceremony, but I have already seen by his golden hair that he was no gardener"s boy," and then she went and kissed him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	His father and mother came to the wedding, and were in great delight, for they had given up all hope of ever seeing their dear son again.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	And as they were sitting at the marriage-feast, the music suddenly stopped, the doors opened, and a stately king came in with a great retinue.
joy	fairytale_sentences	He went up to the youth, embraced him and said: "I am Iron Hans, and was by enchantment a wild man, but you have set me free; all the treasures which I possess, shall be your property."
joy	fairytale_sentences	There was once upon a time an old goat who had seven little kids, and loved them with all the love of a mother for her children.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the old one bleated, and went on her way with an easy mind.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then he put his paws in through the window and when the kids saw that they were white, they believed that all he said was true, and opened the door.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	But who should come in but the wolf!
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the wolf had satisfied his appetite he took himself off, laid himself down under a tree in the green meadow outside, and began to sleep.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Ah! what a sight she saw there!
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, heavens," she said, "is it possible that my poor children whom he has swallowed down for his supper, can be still alive?"
surprise	fairytale_sentences	Then the kid had to run home and fetch scissors, and a needle and thread, and the goat cut open the monster"s stomach, and hardly had she made one cut, than one little kid thrust its head out, and when she had cut farther, all six sprang out one after another, and were all still alive, and had suffered no injury whatever, for in his greediness the monster had swallowed them down whole.
joy	fairytale_sentences	What rejoicing there was!
joy	fairytale_sentences	They embraced their dear mother, and jumped like a tailor at his wedding.
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the seven kids saw that, they came running to the spot and cried aloud: "The wolf is dead!
joy	fairytale_sentences	The wolf is dead!" and danced for joy round about the well with their mother.
joy	fairytale_sentences	There was once on a time a princess who was extremely proud.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	If a wooer came she gave him some riddle to guess, and if he could not find it out, he was sent contemptuously away.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	Then the two others said to him, "Just stay at home; thou canst not do much with thy little bit of understanding."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The little tailor, however, did not let himself be discouraged, and said he had set his head to work about this for once, and he would manage well enough, and he went forth as if the whole world were his.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the little tailor stepped boldly forth and said, "The princess has a silver and a golden hair on her head, and those are the two different colors."
joy	fairytale_sentences	The little tailor did not let himself be frightened away, but was quite delighted, and said, "Boldly ventured is half won."
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then quite composedly, and as if he had not an anxiety in the world, he took some nuts out of his pocket, cracked them, and ate the kernels.
disgust	fairytale_sentences	"Eh!" thought he, "what a stupid blockhead I am!
disgust	fairytale_sentences	I cannot even crack a nut!" and then he said to the tailor, "Here, crack me the nuts."
joy	fairytale_sentences	When the bear heard the music, he could not help beginning to dance, and when he had danced a while, the thing pleased him so well that he said to the little tailor, "Hark you, is the fiddle heavy?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"So," said the bear; "fiddling is a thing I should like to understand too, that I might dance whenever I had a fancy.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"With all my heart," said the tailor, "if thou hast a talent for it.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The tailor drove quietly to church, and the princess was married to him at once, and he lived with her as happy as a woodlark.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The King put it in a box and rode away with it until he came to a deep piece of water; then he threw the box into it and thought, "I have freed my daughter from her unlooked-for suitor."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He took him to the miller and his wife, and as they had no children they were glad, and said, "God has given him to us."
joy	fairytale_sentences	And the Queen, when she had received the letter and read it, did as was written in it, and had a splendid wedding-feast prepared, and the King"s daughter was married to the luck-child, and as the youth was handsome and agreeable she lived with him in joy and contentment.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"How has that come to pass?" said he; "I gave quite another order in my letter."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"That is a good deal to ask for," said she; "if the devil comes home and finds you, it will cost you your life; but as I pity you, I will see if I cannot help you."
surprise	fairytale_sentences	No sooner had he entered than he noticed that the air was not pure.
surprise	fairytale_sentences	"Oh!" cried the devil, "what are you doing?"
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, ho! if they did but know it," answered the devil; "there is a toad sitting under a stone in the well; if they killed it, the wine would flow again."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Oh! if they did but know," answered the devil.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Ah! the fool," answered the devil; "when any one comes and wants to go across he must put the oar in his hand, and the other man will have to ferry and he will be free."
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," answered he, "I heard, and will take care to remember."
joy	fairytale_sentences	He thanked the old woman for helping him in his need, and left hell well content that everything had turned out so fortunately.
joy	fairytale_sentences	Then the watchman thanked him, and gave him as a reward two asses laden with gold, which followed him.
joy	fairytale_sentences	The watchman thanked him, and also gave him two asses laden with gold.
joy	fairytale_sentences	At last the luck-child got home to his wife, who was heartily glad to see him again, and to hear how well he had prospered in everything.
joy	fairytale_sentences	To the King he took what he had asked for, the devil"s three golden hairs, and when the King saw the four asses laden with gold he was quite content, and said, "Now all the conditions are fulfilled, and you can keep my daughter.
joy	fairytale_sentences	"Can I too fetch some of it?" said the King; and he was quite eager about it.
joy	artificial_sentences	The simple , laughing islanders subsequently worshipped it as a god , much to the amusement of their more sophisticated neighbours .
joy	artificial_sentences	I have been sent a Leeds United 1993-94 squad picture from the Evening Post and this now adorns my office wall , much to the amusement of my colleagues .
joy	artificial_sentences	He laughed shortly , little amusement on his face .
joy	artificial_sentences	Aristophanes shook his handsome head over his friend 's amusement .
joy	artificial_sentences	This time , the Prince 's amusement was obvious .
joy	artificial_sentences	The note of anger carried to the groups and couples passing by , provoking amusement and raised eyebrows .
joy	artificial_sentences	You could make a fortune , " she said in genuine amusement .
joy	artificial_sentences	Agnes watched with amusement as his interest quickened or faded with each phrase .
joy	artificial_sentences	Gioella 's eyes flashed with amusement as she pushed a chair towards her and said , ` Constance , what a very sophisticated dress .
joy	artificial_sentences	Guy Sterne was having great difficulty in controlling his amusement .
joy	artificial_sentences	Temperamental differences operate once more with this new trio of junior heroes , whose elders , the three lieutenants , regard their pranks with mild amusement .
joy	artificial_sentences	From the other end of the table Ymor watched with mild amusement , occasionally feeding one of his ravens with scraps from his plate .
joy	artificial_sentences	I hate to disappoint anyone but that was n't the case -- although the veiled hints caused us plenty of amusement .
joy	artificial_sentences	He uttered a short sharp bark , which made Rosie jump ; she assumed it was a cough , then realised that it was intended as an expression of amusement .
joy	artificial_sentences	He considered this thoughtfully , then a gleam of amusement came into his eyes .
joy	artificial_sentences	A look of intense amusement crossed Catherine 's face .
joy	artificial_sentences	As a toddler she filled in concentric circles provided for her amusement by her father 's youngest brother , young enough to be her own big brother .
joy	artificial_sentences	A smile of amusement played on his lips as he studied his unkempt prize .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Taking advantage of Guy 's momentary stupefaction , she wriggled out from under him and leapt off the bed , everything forgotten but the need to escape from something she dared not put a name to .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Another step forward and Pooley noted to his utter stupefaction that it had vanished altogether into empty air .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Downes shook his head in stupefaction .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Athelstan sat in complete stupefaction , drinking his beer , as Cranston cleared every platter , washing it all down with another bowl of claret .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Except the O'Neil family in the first row of the circle , who sat in stupefied amazement , hardly believing what they had witnessed .
surprise	artificial_sentences	If the birds are disturbed during the process , there could be large numbers of stupefied birds fluttering amongst the traffic as the morning progresses with public complaints resulting , " the report stated .
surprise	artificial_sentences	It was Blackberry who bullied the stupefied Pipkin to his feet and forced him to limp the few yards to the gravel spit .
surprise	artificial_sentences	He woke stupefied , flicking his tongue over his parched lips like a reptile .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Laura stared up at Ross in stupefied amazement .
surprise	artificial_sentences	The pain had faded into the background and she was starting to feel stupefied , her head stuffed with cotton wool , her eyes heavy .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Then there was the American sprinter Jesse Owens , who swept to victory in the Berlin Olympic Games of 1936 , much to the disgruntlement of Hitler .
disgust	artificial_sentences	He 'd play her along until she got fed-up and started making too many demands .
disgust	artificial_sentences	They can be happy and cheerful but they can also get fed-up , frustrated , angry , disappointed and hurt inside -- just like real people .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Now fed-up locals want the name of their quiet cul-de-sac in Studley , Warwickshire , changed -- unless BBC chiefs drop the flop of a show first .
disgust	artificial_sentences	A RUSTY old gasometer which fed-up local residents want demolished because ` it 's a blot on the landscape " has been compared to some of Italy 's most beautiful buildings .
disgust	artificial_sentences	What a visiting Londoner sees as the soaring grandeur of New York , a fed-up New Yorker sees as sunlight deprivation .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Now fed-up councillors are planning to meet officials from the Re-Roof Housing Association .
joy	artificial_sentences	I suppose I am happy being so ` tiny' ; it means I am able to surprise people with what is generally seen as my confident and outgoing personality .
joy	artificial_sentences	Lennox has always truly wanted to fight for the world title and was happy taking the tough route .
joy	artificial_sentences	He was a professional musician now , still sensitive and happy doing something he loved .
joy	artificial_sentences	Holmes is happy having the freedom of the house when we are out .
joy	artificial_sentences	I had problems with tutors trying to encourage me to diversity my work and experiment with other styles , but I was quite happy with the direction my work was heading so I stubbornly stuck to it .
joy	artificial_sentences	These days he is quite happy travelling by trolley .
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm really happy in the group now . "
joy	artificial_sentences	I was given a dummy in which to do my preliminary sketches , but the dummy was designed so beautifully by Amelia Edwards that I was really happy with my work .
joy	artificial_sentences	I must say I was not totally happy about her going on at Yeo Davis , with me in the government .
joy	artificial_sentences	Indeed , the two M boys themselves were not totally happy at first at having these initially undisciplined children visiting their home and generally being around on a regular basis .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I am very happy with the way I am playing but I accept that he believes he should be England 's fly-half .
joy	artificial_sentences	But seriously , I 'm very happy that you 're staying .
joy	artificial_sentences	We are very happy that the Volkswagen Tour has enabled us to welcome this renowned orchestra to the Festival for the first time .
joy	artificial_sentences	In the last 10 days of the trail , however , he became much happier to take risks , although babies remained unkissed .
joy	artificial_sentences	A drop of scotch during occasional periods of self-criticism helped him to become happy with himself , but most of the time he was happy anyway .
joy	artificial_sentences	He felt suddenly happy at being alive .
joy	artificial_sentences	What I did n't understand was why I did n't feel happy walking down the street afterwards .
joy	artificial_sentences	Sarah tried to stop herself from feeling happy at this revelation .
joy	artificial_sentences	He seemed happy with this .
joy	artificial_sentences	Nevertheless , no writer , however self-sufficient , writes without a thought of an audience , and Tolkien was happy to discover anyone who could appreciate what he was up to .
joy	artificial_sentences	He 's just happy to get on with it .
joy	artificial_sentences	Neil Kinnock was happy that his deputy should spell out his commitment to equality as Labour 's objective .
joy	artificial_sentences	I was happy that I was having my own baby but sometimes I used to cry for nothing and I was easily upset .
joy	artificial_sentences	` We are not happy that the group is meeting Sinn Fein and will demand an explanation from the Consulate .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I 'm so happy you could make it , my favourite jockey . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Said his co-boss Curbishley : ` I was a bit disappointed when Lennie Lawrence at Middlesbrough did n't come up with the price we 'd fixed but I 'm happy the lad is still here .
joy	artificial_sentences	Do you have a delight in animals and skill in their management ?
joy	artificial_sentences	The book also moves close to a highly critical analysis of science and yet never becomes anti-science , only anti-scientific : Jones 's own delight in physics enthusiastically drawing the sting out of his own criticism .
joy	artificial_sentences	But he was sniffily dismayed at their delight in consumerism and sheep-like attitude to the reactionary rubbish in the papers .
joy	artificial_sentences	Trying to hide her enormous delight in his return , Juliet turned to David .
joy	artificial_sentences	` Estelle 's delight in Thomas made your mother very happy , " Ashley recalled , her head resting against his chest .
joy	artificial_sentences	She cackled and slapped her knees , bent double and wheezing with delight at her own witticisms .
joy	artificial_sentences	My delight at everything I saw was beyond bounds  gardens were allotted my sister and self  there was the canal to fish in  a pony to ride  besides animals of different kinds
joy	artificial_sentences	They were astonished to see the penguin , and swooped low to call out with delight at her sleek feathers and solid little body .
joy	artificial_sentences	The ANC , while expressing delight at their decision , nevertheless continued to call for the dissolution of the tricameral parliament , which it regarded as essentially racist .
joy	artificial_sentences	Her stumbling repetition masked a growing delight at his basic error .
joy	artificial_sentences	Bobby Robson 's delight at having guided his team to another major tourament was coupled with gratitude to the 40-year-old goalkeeper .
joy	artificial_sentences	Expressing his delight at being appointed , he said : ` This is the one job I had hoped for . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Headmaster Jim Jones recalled her delight at winning the egg and spoon race .
joy	artificial_sentences	The delight at being finally united with Joan was tempered by a feeling of discomfort about Ronnie Leahy .
joy	artificial_sentences	Minton 's sober and workmanlike drawings instance his delight in registering rhythmic activity and industrial shapes .
joy	artificial_sentences	His delight and sense of wonder at the growth of his baby were erratic as other interests pressed , but real enough .
joy	artificial_sentences	Yes , I 'd like to declare a small case of French flu , a dangerous fondness for Flaubert , a childish delight in French road-signs , and a love of the light as you look north .
joy	artificial_sentences	The celebration of sexuality found in the works of Sidur , Neizvestny and others , stemmed partly from the mischievous delight in taunting society 's taboos .
joy	artificial_sentences	It was also due to a barbaric delight in high-sounding verbiage , and probably this was the most powerful reason for its use .
joy	artificial_sentences	Re was at first pleased but soon realised that Hathor 's delight in killing might lead to the destruction of all mankind , which he had not intended .
joy	artificial_sentences	Their cheerfulness and delight at still being alive only made Charlie feel more guilty .
joy	artificial_sentences	This time Ronni admitted it , feeling a little like a traitor at the confession -- and at the sense of pure delight she felt at Guido 's gesture .
joy	artificial_sentences	In the end , the poems must be read as expressions of sheer delight in friendship .
joy	artificial_sentences	With such obvious delight in food , it 's hard to see how Blanc remains so slim .
joy	artificial_sentences	The animal seemed to take a perverse delight in terrorizing him .
joy	artificial_sentences	All he 'd glimpsed through the window was Matta playing solitaire of some kind , so why had the man taken such delight in terrifying him ?
joy	artificial_sentences	But do I take delight in pushing you down , making you worse ?
joy	artificial_sentences	Todd showed delight in simple songs and reverence when invited to pray .
joy	artificial_sentences	` But my chairman and vice-chairman have given me another year 's contract , and I 'm absolutely delighted to be staying at Nottingham Forest .
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm absolutely delighted that we achieved what we set out to do at the beginning of the week , which was to ensure that the Ryder Cup stayed on this side of the Atlantic .
joy	artificial_sentences	Highly delighted with the transaction , we made our way back to Althorp Street , wondering how we were to break the news to Mrs Sugden .
joy	artificial_sentences	Both Mr Souness and Jim Smith , the Portsmouth manager , emphasised how delighted they were with the overall quality of yesterday 's tie .
joy	artificial_sentences	She was on her feet taking his hand , smiling at him , telling him how delighted she was to meet him .
joy	artificial_sentences	Sir : I am writing to say how delighted I am with your magazine !
joy	artificial_sentences	Mr Mitterrand appears so delighted with the ultra-courteous Edouard Balladur , that some Socialists wonder whether he has at last found the prime minister of his dreams .
joy	artificial_sentences	I was responsible for Community Programme for the last 18 months of its life , so I 'm delighted to be involved in introducing Community Action .
joy	artificial_sentences	So we 're delighted to bring our conference to support our members in Portsmouth .
joy	artificial_sentences	The Buenos Aires flight was delayed and the plane horribly hot , but this did n't upset the passengers who seemed delighted to be going home .
joy	artificial_sentences	The proprietress seemed delighted to see them .
joy	artificial_sentences	For the watching world , she smiled and laughed , seeming perfectly delighted with her husband and newfound status .
joy	artificial_sentences	` He did n't seem too delighted to see you , " said Betty .
joy	artificial_sentences	Advertisers said they were delighted to see many of their proposals reflected in the Government 's approach .
joy	artificial_sentences	Whether or not the Palace actually arranged for the drawing to be removed , there can be little doubt that they were delighted to be rid of it .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I am delighted that you are so cheerful and optimistic .
joy	artificial_sentences	On the other hand , she suspected that Fowler-Thrown would be delighted to have a private view of Newley 's collection .
joy	artificial_sentences	Obviously , staff will be delighted that the appointment of a new Director has been made and sad that Tom has gone but it is the proposed reorganisation which will occupy the minds of most staff .
joy	artificial_sentences	I was delighted to see the photograph of the staff from Department One , published in the January/February issue of Wimpey News .
joy	artificial_sentences	They were delighted with the turnout of spectators and the general organisations by local authorities .
joy	artificial_sentences	` We are delighted to help the museum extend its collection , " said Mr Watson .
joy	artificial_sentences	Not having entered art competitions before , I 'm delighted to have reached the finals .
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm delighted to learn that his advice has been sought in the present enterprise .
joy	artificial_sentences	We act cool , like we 're not delighted to meet up again , then we sit round the kitchen table and talk .
joy	artificial_sentences	My Lord Mayor , I 'm delighted to have this opportunity to debate the Government 's health reforms again .
joy	artificial_sentences	Delighted to be taken for another ride in another car , the little boy chuckled .
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm delighted that you 've been able to come along at such short notice .
joy	artificial_sentences	` What is it ? " asked the eight-year-old , delighted that he had somehow managed to amuse this mature woman of nineteen .
joy	artificial_sentences	` Now that I 've seen the finished copy I 'm delighted that I encouraged Susan to write it , " said Mrs Major .
joy	artificial_sentences	Li Yuan was smiling broadly , pleased with himself , proud of his scheme , and delighted that he had Tsu Ma 's approval .
joy	artificial_sentences	Though relieved , and fiercely delighted that she had apparently stopped him in his tracks , Polly was apprehensive about going back up on deck .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I 'm delighted they left you the house , " Julia told Margaret .
joy	artificial_sentences	We were all very worried about you and I 'm delighted you 're home again .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I 'm delighted you 're so pleased to see me . "
joy	artificial_sentences	` Lee and Ian have shown they have what it takes to earn first-year professional terms and I 'm delighted they 've agreed to join us .
joy	artificial_sentences	McGoldrick signed on for four years after talks with Highbury boss George Graham and said : ` I 'm delighted it 's all gone through so smoothly . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Sammy stuck his nose in the air , delighted at such attention .
joy	artificial_sentences	The dog , delighted at last to have some attention paid to it , raced ahead , scenting rabbits , his great tail pluming .
joy	artificial_sentences	He appeared delighted at the prospect .
joy	artificial_sentences	Looking anything but delighted at the prospect , he stood up .
joy	artificial_sentences	She grinned , delighted at this mind-reading .
joy	artificial_sentences	She cackled , delighted with the queasy mixture on the plate , hot brown coffee lapping at the pale wedge of sugared pastry .
joy	artificial_sentences	Delighted with their silver medals for reaching the final against the world champions , England saw the match open with an expected win by the world champion Jorgen Persson over English champion Chen Xinhua 21-8 , 21-18 .
joy	artificial_sentences	` In my youth " , says Baxter , ` I was quickly past my fundamentals and was running up into a multitude of controversies , and greatly delighted with metaphysical and scholastic writings . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Modigliani , delighted with the atmosphere of warmth and sincerity , resumed his friendship with Soutine and Indenbaum .
joy	artificial_sentences	And , remember , as with all our offers , we guarantee to refund your money if you 're not delighted with your purchase .
joy	artificial_sentences	He chuckled , delighted at having amazed her .
joy	artificial_sentences	Delighted at having gained his complete attention , Lori squirmed in her seat .
joy	artificial_sentences	Morrissey was ecstatic at the response .
joy	artificial_sentences	If you use a fax card you 'll be ecstatic to see that WordStar has the capacity to create faxable files in a matter of seconds .
joy	artificial_sentences	With a grimace , Donal murmured gloomily , ` He was n't exactly ecstatic at my explanation . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Thank you , thank you ! " she cried , quite ecstatic that he 'd unbent .
joy	artificial_sentences	` Well ? " he barked , clearly not ecstatic that she thought she could lay down conditions .
joy	artificial_sentences	Every time they got near him , he backed off , ecstatic with excitement , tail wagging furiously .
joy	artificial_sentences	The elation of witnessing birth may be followed by a sense of disorientation at being a displaced person .
joy	artificial_sentences	But Richard 's elation at regaining his health was short lived because his kidneys started to fail .
joy	artificial_sentences	Rescued dogs are often somewhat nervous of people , and yet may also become excited to see you , when you have been out , for example .
joy	artificial_sentences	I could n't wait for the pictures to come out , I was so excited to see them .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I am so excited about seeing my sons again .
joy	artificial_sentences	` They are naturally excited about getting the championship back after 33 years , " he said .
joy	artificial_sentences	This man introduced me to an agent who did n't look all that excited to see me and was only obliging a friend .
joy	artificial_sentences	Now that he was committed to a course of action he felt exhilarated .
joy	artificial_sentences	He was exhilarated when he heard Ornette Coleman improvising free jazz with his plastic saxophone at a club .
joy	artificial_sentences	Reflecting on the experience , Donia said : `` I think you 're exhilarated by the determination and strength of the human spirit . ''
joy	artificial_sentences	Her cheeks were already aglow from a combination of the heat and the exhilaration of being the centre of attention , and this had lent an extra , youthful radiance to her beauty .
joy	artificial_sentences	Clive also attended , visibly gleeful that he had spared the school any undesirable publicity by unloading me in the nick of time .
joy	artificial_sentences	Mention of the press 's glee at the humiliation of the investigators behind this summer 's high-profile surveillance project Operation Blackbird , who were fooled by an obvious hoax , brings out Tarr 's own nascent conspiracy theory .
joy	artificial_sentences	Many Labour MPs could not hide their glee at the SNP 's action , such is their antipathy to cross-party co-operation .
joy	artificial_sentences	Whereas in Crime and Punishment and in the novels which follow he can , though his narrow glee over being ahead of the fact is unworthy of his art and of what ` idealism " and ` deeper realism " intend .
joy	artificial_sentences	On reaching the Fish I let out a cry of triumph , overjoyed to have got there while conveniently forgetting the Verdon-like wall which lay above .
joy	artificial_sentences	Thacker was not overjoyed to see them , but he played along , switching on the charm .
joy	artificial_sentences	Most estate agents were overjoyed at the election result .
joy	artificial_sentences	The warden and his wife , being owners of a Siamese cat , were not overjoyed to see Emily but they reluctantly fed her a saucer of milk , saying that she could stay for one night .
joy	artificial_sentences	Louise was overjoyed with the suggestion .
joy	artificial_sentences	So the chief librarian was surprised and not particularly overjoyed to be dragged down from his rooftop sun terrace by Harry 's telephone call .
joy	artificial_sentences	The young lord was overjoyed to see what a beautiful wife his friends had found for him .
joy	artificial_sentences	The very idea is preposterous and I was overjoyed to see that you believed me .
joy	artificial_sentences	` You know Joanna will be overjoyed to see you in any condition . "
joy	artificial_sentences	` They take young grandpas , " said Linda , amazed and overjoyed he 'd had the idea for himself and still not able to get over her daughter 's news .
joy	artificial_sentences	I do n't suppose you 're overjoyed that I 've got a friend in the rival camp . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Neighbours recalled how Ms Bailey was overjoyed at the birth of her daughter .
joy	artificial_sentences	But his father was overjoyed to see him , and at once threw a party .
joy	artificial_sentences	Landlords were not pleased to find that their apartment blocks had overnight become the property of the tenants .
joy	artificial_sentences	He seemed pleased to remind us of yet more evidence of Bouilland 's humming modernity , and took us out into the sun again .
joy	artificial_sentences	The London Irish Women 's Centre are pleased to announce that the Irish language classes for adults will continue with Siobhan Ni Neill on Fridays from 10.30 am to 12.30 starting on Feb 7 .
joy	artificial_sentences	We were pleased to see the Canadians do so well in the World Cup after they had beaten us over there " !
joy	artificial_sentences	We are pleased to see the guidance state unequivocally that major retail developments are inappropriate in Green Belts .
joy	artificial_sentences	I have said we will be pleased to provide back-up with visitor 's packs etc and that I would inform you of the request .
joy	artificial_sentences	I am pleased that there has been a threefold increase in , for example , HRT prescriptions during the past 10 years .
joy	artificial_sentences	I am pleased that they have responded very positively .
joy	artificial_sentences	George Grindal was pleased that he could turn to the bedside cabinet and take up the feeding glass containing orange juice .
joy	artificial_sentences	Guinness is particularly pleased that its own employees can participate in these programmes through matched giving schemes .
joy	artificial_sentences	` Yes , yes , I did , " she told him , feeling ridiculously pleased that he was clearly enjoying her first attempt at baking a cake .
joy	artificial_sentences	Lexie 's parents are pleased that their efforts may prevent other children dying from the side effects of steroid treatment .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I think everyone is very pleased they 've changed their minds , " said England 's most-capped player , Rory Underwood .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I was so pleased she lived until just after Sam was born .
joy	artificial_sentences	Blake says how pleased he is with the firm 's improved performance , acknowledging the considerable efforts and progress it has made .
joy	artificial_sentences	` Your mother and I are so pleased you are so happy .
joy	artificial_sentences	She washed the floor thorough and was pleased she had done so .
joy	artificial_sentences	To tell you the truth , I was n't at all pleased about Russell sitting in the same coach with us .
joy	artificial_sentences	I could never have agreed to such a plan , but was pleased at Mick 's change of mood .
joy	artificial_sentences	The King was bluntly informing him that he was ill pleased at the lack of progress Corbett was making .
joy	artificial_sentences	Smiling across the room at Laura 's tall , slender figure , she added , ` Besides , everyone in your office was so pleased at your promotion .
joy	artificial_sentences	I was particularly pleased at the emphasis on investment in education and training , in science research and development and the commitments he gave on transport and health and community care .
joy	artificial_sentences	I can see you 're pleased with yourself `
joy	artificial_sentences	` Everyone seemed very pleased with the arrangements Philippe had made , did n't they , Rose ? "
joy	artificial_sentences	I saw him return this morning , so pleased with himself . "
joy	artificial_sentences	He laughed , showing his white , sharp teeth , pleased with his joke .
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm delighted that you were pleased with the response .
joy	artificial_sentences	Apparently Skipper landed , felt extremely pleased with himself and threw an enormous buck with a twist in it .
joy	artificial_sentences	Even my father was n't too pleased about continually having to clean his porch roof , which our residents had covered in droppings and other nest debris .
joy	artificial_sentences	At the beginning of the O-level summer term I weighed eight stone three pounds and , if I was pleased at having lost two pounds , I certainly did n't say so .
joy	artificial_sentences	She smiled , as if pleased at displaying her superiority .
joy	artificial_sentences	He liked to think of her being pleased at getting a letter .
joy	artificial_sentences	I hope you were pleased with how much we sold .
joy	artificial_sentences	Mrs Thatcher has mastered the sound-bite , to be repeated at intervals like a mantra : ` So very pleased with how it 's going . "
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm very pleased with how we 've reacted to our bad start to the season . "
joy	artificial_sentences	She was pleased at how low her voice was , how steady .
joy	artificial_sentences	Whatever I want , she wants , and she 's pleased at how things have turned out .
joy	artificial_sentences	They obviously thought I was doing terribly badly at that time and were very pleased at how well they had rigged me out  until I put on the mac .
joy	artificial_sentences	Nevertheless , your father ( and mother , too for that matter ! ) may well be very pleased if your boyfriend takes the time to have a chat with them .
joy	artificial_sentences	` Katherine , I haven t yet told you how pleased we all are that you shall be going to school here and be with us at Valois frequently .
joy	artificial_sentences	` I am supposed to be going there with Sister Agape , but I 'd be pleased if you would take my place .
joy	artificial_sentences	As it was , I felt thrilled to be walking on the same ground that young Thomson had trodden long before .
joy	artificial_sentences	A friend said : ` Joan is thrilled Katy has found such a nice chap . "
joy	artificial_sentences	Professor Winston said : ` I 'm thrilled to see them all here .
joy	artificial_sentences	Most pool owners are thrilled if they can persuade their fish to breed successfully .
joy	artificial_sentences	I felt thrilled to be back in Abyssinia and stared entranced at the arid landscape of the Danakil desert .
joy	artificial_sentences	I 'm thrilled to see her !
joy	artificial_sentences	Keith , a general operator at Associated Octel 's plant in Ellesmere Port , is thrilled to see his brother back home .
joy	artificial_sentences	His excitement at the prospect of exploiting that potential is palpable , though he has no illusions about current difficulties .
joy	artificial_sentences	FOR months now I have been trying to contain excitement at the thought of the compact disc .
joy	artificial_sentences	Because of what had happened , some of her excitement at the thought of seeing Czechoslovakia had ebbed .
joy	artificial_sentences	Manufacturers could play on the excitement of a commentary to sell their sets .
joy	artificial_sentences	I had lost the excitement of the first Ramble to the Trossachs which had all been new territory .
joy	artificial_sentences	But a dry day would bring bigger crowds and add to the excitement of the vital third round of the tournament .
joy	artificial_sentences	Travellers might get used to jet-lag in the sense that they learn to live with it , or they might find it progressively more irksome as their initial excitement with travel begins to wear thin .
joy	artificial_sentences	I enjoyed his excitement with politics .
joy	artificial_sentences	All around there was the electric atmosphere of first night excitement .
joy	artificial_sentences	This would normally push up her heart rate but with her pulse already racing due to the alcohol , dancing and general party excitement the increase is not as noticeable as normal .
joy	artificial_sentences	` It was a sort of excitement to him . "
joy	artificial_sentences	As Christmas approached , the excitement of preparation began to get through to her .
joy	artificial_sentences	You are afraid and full of excitement at thoughts of what you might find .
joy	artificial_sentences	He had seen beyond the excitement of being approached for his first book ; he already visualised it on the bookshelves !
joy	artificial_sentences	Perhaps only she knows the journey he has made , from the cocky Jack-the-lad who neglected the discipline of academic study for the raw excitement of Left-wing politics to the measured politician with an answer for everyone .
joy	artificial_sentences	We are off and have great excitement fishing up treasure ( fake ) tied to bladders .
joy	artificial_sentences	Neither he nor Peter can conceal excitement at being back in the limelight again .
joy	artificial_sentences	I have explained to pupils that I do not know ` the answer " and so I can share the excitement of working out a problem with them .
joy	artificial_sentences	I remember being highly amused at his rendering of a young rook 's cry whilst gobbling a worm : it was perfectly true to nature  .
joy	artificial_sentences	She was already feeling a bit better and she felt quite amused at this cool domination , especially as she was not going to pay any attention to it .
joy	artificial_sentences	Even falling asleep as he was , McLeish was amused at Bruce Davidson 's hopeful , proprietorial air .
joy	artificial_sentences	Clattering on , trying to hold five ponies and eat an ice-cream , Perdita was not amused to hear whoops and noisy hooting behind her .
joy	artificial_sentences	Hauser was amused at the suggestion .
joy	artificial_sentences	Robert Stephenson , when John met him after the week 's delay , was amused at the story of the Triumph of Rhyll .
joy	artificial_sentences	Our amusement at his false assumption seemed to ease the tension between us .
joy	artificial_sentences	However , I thought you might share my amusement at the thought of baked beans at a low tension !
joy	artificial_sentences	His amusement at the scene was rekindled .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Now you see in our day and generation , we do n't need to be reminded of the importance of little things. the more we learn about the atom , the more we 're astonished at its complexity and its unseen power .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Lin Foh blinked , quite astonished at being spoken to so sharply .
surprise	artificial_sentences	When Ramsey came to read the book himself , later in life , he was astonished , and at one point burst out laughing , to discover what irrational expressions he could use .
surprise	artificial_sentences	I was astonished at the smallness of the area which these enclosed .
surprise	artificial_sentences	From the outset , commentators seem to have been astonished at the great interest the competition evoked .
surprise	artificial_sentences	He was astonished at the change in him .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Now as he strode north determined on its recovery he was ashamed and astonished at his own folly .
surprise	artificial_sentences	But when I got to be twenty-one , I was astonished at how much he had learned in seven years .
surprise	artificial_sentences	She was astonished , and secretly pleased , that he had remembered her name .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Those new to the area were always astonished at the vivid crimson of the earth and buildings .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Maggie was quite astonished at her own determination on that score .
surprise	artificial_sentences	But she was even more astonished at her ladyship 's next words .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Eleanor Thorne half-sat up in the great bed , astonished at the freshness , the absolute appeal of her idea .
surprise	artificial_sentences	` I 'm astonished at what you 've achieved , Kitty .
surprise	artificial_sentences	` From all you say of Papa , " announced Dr Neil naughtily , ` I 'm astonished to learn that he went bankrupt .
surprise	artificial_sentences	She saw his fear , his bewilderment , and above all , a kind of astonishment at the enormity of the complications that lay ahead .
surprise	artificial_sentences	My previous astonishment at the fact that people who came here like De Michelis [ the former foreign secretary ] , or like ex-Prime Minister Andreotti , never endowed us with any money is now diminished .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Martha replied , and left her twin sister blinking in astonishment at a possibility that had n't occurred to her before , but which was now enticingly attractive .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Mrs Syms 's astonishment at her appearance was almost comical .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Carolyn watched him , caught between her astonishment at his presence here , and the sudden absolutely natural way they were talking .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Miss Logan concealed her astonishment at this curious lecture , but felt bound to enquire further .
surprise	artificial_sentences	But there was some astonishment at the size and timing of the exceptional write-offs , which will result in 9,000 job losses from a worldwide total of 128,600 .
surprise	artificial_sentences	John Lahr told me of his astonishment at how unpleasant he could be to waiters at the Indian restaurant they visited together .
surprise	artificial_sentences	When the peat-brown eyes fixed on hers again , their level gaze showed he had recovered from his astonishment at seeing her .
surprise	artificial_sentences	AN OXFORDSHIRE reader expresses astonishment that so many of the hotels featured in this column border on Fawlty Towers .
surprise	artificial_sentences	We write to express astonishment at the standard of writing that has featured in much of your pre-election coverage .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Lomponda wa Botende , a former Chief of Staff , expressed his astonishment at the report , and the Defence Ministry denied that any coup attempt had been made .
surprise	artificial_sentences	He felt a mixture of astonishment at himself and irritation that his rigid daily routine was going to be broken after forty undisturbed years .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Alexei was unable to hide his astonishment at Siban 's subdued tone .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Ex-hacker Stephen Gold says he remains ` astounded at the arrogance " of the Law Commission for not drawing on the experience of others .
surprise	artificial_sentences	He added : ` I 'm astounded he has not been on the fringe of the Dutch team . "
surprise	artificial_sentences	A man was astounded to walk into his son 's bedroom and find him sitting playing chess with his dog .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Some workers have been astounded at the amount of extra paperwork .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Serge was astounded to see a bedraggled Lili appear in his room in the middle of the night .
surprise	artificial_sentences	He must have managed to purloin a copy of the house key from somewhere and was obviously astounded to find someone already scouring the house , especially her .
surprise	artificial_sentences	And even as I did I was astounded at myself .
surprise	artificial_sentences	His last illness was the most violent , and his doctors were astounded that he survived it .
surprise	artificial_sentences	She seemed to be almost floating and Maggie was astounded that the sharp stones had not given her enough pain to waken her .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Zen was so astounded at finding Cinzia there on that particular evening that he could think of nothing whatever to say .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Before she left for London , Cllr Cooper said : ` I am astounded to have been chosen .
surprise	artificial_sentences	` Please do , " said Ianthe , who was temporarily a little bewildered at Penelope 's appearance and unconventional clothes .
surprise	artificial_sentences	What 's so terrible for IMP in that ? " she blustered , still bewildered why he should find the idea of it so important .
surprise	artificial_sentences	David filled her dreams ; the ecstasy of their lovemaking , and the pain and bewilderment of his abrupt departure .
surprise	artificial_sentences	There was such masculine bewilderment in his deep voice at the unexpected display of emotion that Fran smiled .
surprise	artificial_sentences	I 'm downright flabbergasted to know you 're treatin' Dolly so unkind an' beatin' 'er as well .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Upon his arrival , he was nonplussed to find the yard and buildings deserted .
surprise	artificial_sentences	George knew that she was a bit nonplussed at his eagerness for her to have her own social life .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Joan 's great skill , then as now , was to be completely nonplussed by anything Richard did .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Branson was nonplussed by Elliott 's refusal ; in fact , it constituted the perfect challenge .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Fabia felt it might be a touch cruel to laugh at him again but , feeling certain he would run a mile if she took him seriously , she was a little nonplussed about how to answer him .
surprise	artificial_sentences	Rocastle got a page long interview expressing some puzzlement at Wilko keeping him out of the first team .
surprise	artificial_sentences	He seemed startled to see me as if applicants , once embarked on musical offices , rarely returned .
surprise	artificial_sentences	I am startled to find myself addressing you instead .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Now the special envoy of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees , Jose-Maria Mendiluce , says he is revolted to hear those words from Mr Boban .
disgust	artificial_sentences	`` I am outraged and revolted by the decision of my supervisors .
disgust	artificial_sentences	`` A lot of people , they 're absolutely revolted by the fact that these evil , depraved IRA godfathers can recruit impressionable young Irish people into ( committing ) appalling acts of violence . ''
disgust	artificial_sentences	Evreux 's Communist mayor , Roland Plaisance , said he was `` revolted '' by the firing and praised Gaillot 's commitment to `` staying close to the poor and the excluded . ''
disgust	artificial_sentences	One of Greece 's largest hunting clubs , located in the northern port city of Salonica , said in an announcement that it was `` revolted '' by the dog fights .
disgust	artificial_sentences	I am sickened to now learn that the Government has acquiesced to the other EC leaders on this issue at the Edinburgh Summit and that , for the sake of subsidiarity , this directive has been dropped .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Os Guinness has captured this middle-class revulsion against materialism and affluent decadence in his best-selling book The Dust of Death ( 1973 ) .
disgust	artificial_sentences	In many schools in the 1960s a revulsion against decontextualised exercises brought about a complete abandonment of the teaching of grammar .
disgust	artificial_sentences	` What we are seeing now is a public revulsion against violence in society which is feeding through to a desire for greater sensitivity by programme makers , " he said .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Even in the 1930s the anti-Semitism of literary figures like Hilaire Belloc and G. K. Chesterton co-existed uneasily with their revulsion at the racial policies of the new Germany .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Thomas Coram 's revulsion at the infant corpses in London gutters led him to campaign for a hospital for foundlings , established in 1741 .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Revulsion at injustice , poverty and denied opportunity , he says , impels people to work for a better world .
disgust	artificial_sentences	However , I quite enjoyed describing the horrors of my creation , and shared with Edward Young , the architect , his revulsion for the hideous house , covered in peeling stucco , as chilling within as without .
disgust	artificial_sentences	He said he would be happy to lead the march planned for next Sunday ` to show the city 's revulsion for terrorism . "
disgust	artificial_sentences	But equally , it provided a home for some of the darkest forms of distrust of and revulsion from sex and marriage .
disgust	artificial_sentences	This ` instinctive revulsion from regulation " is the foundation of his libertarian heritage and it gives rise to a particular vision of how broadcasting should develop and what its purposes should be .
disgust	artificial_sentences	It is unfortunate that such considerations may be thrust out of view by continuing public -- and perhaps personal -- revulsion towards the concept of child sexuality .
disgust	artificial_sentences	There was , as yet , no significant revulsion amongst the general public towards the use of nuclear weapons to save manpower .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Nell swallowed down the revulsion of the word normal .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Its roots were both theological and caused by the revulsion of the burnings in Mary 's reign .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Colette works at marshalling our feelings of revulsion at this voracious creature who has almost killed the poor box thorn .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Revulsion at what has been happening there is not a prerogative of the politically correct .
disgust	artificial_sentences	If so , he would undo her revulsion with tonight 's business .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Such side-effects seem to be becoming increasingly common these days , and many patients are becoming disgruntled with these drugs and are seeking safer alternatives .
disgust	artificial_sentences	We were feeling rather disgruntled at how many good films we 'd obviously missed when a man came on to the stage to read the nominations for one of the categories .
disgust	artificial_sentences	He looked disgruntled to see Harbury , despite Eliot 's explanation that he wanted Harbury to give what further help Shildon needed .
disgust	artificial_sentences	He could pretend she was a good housewife , cook and mother to other men who were disgruntled at their wives , brilliant careers .
disgust	artificial_sentences	It linked the poor performance with the exodus to the West of more than 330,000 East Germans disgruntled with Communism .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Woody Allen wrote and directed this comedy in which he stars as New Yorker Isaac Davis who is in love with his city but disgruntled with his job as a TV comedy writer .
disgust	artificial_sentences	But they were caught out when accounts assistant Anne Riley , disgruntled at being sacked , told chairman Douglas Bishop of their alleged antics .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Charles opened his eyes warily , disgruntled at being dragged out of his dream .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Nor , in the western part of the country , does disgruntlement with Mr Kohl mean gruntlement for Social Democrats .
disgust	artificial_sentences	Be prepared to train twice as hard on your weaker side and each time you feel fed-up through lack of progress , switch to your stronger side to give yourself a boost .
disgust	artificial_sentences	We are getting a bit fed-up of people saying how badly opponents play against us .
disgust	artificial_sentences	FACTORY workers fed-up with secretary Carolyn Bullock 's dodgy parking hoisted her car on to the firm 's roof with a crane .
disgust	artificial_sentences	In an increasingly health-conscious world , executives from Brazil to Britain have become increasingly fed-up with luncheon excesses .
disgust	artificial_sentences	I know they are working on a building site but we are just fed-up with this disruption . "
disgust	artificial_sentences	The cave-man got fed-up with walking
joy	tweets	@theclobra lol I thought maybe, couldn't decide if there was levity or not
joy	tweets	Nawaz Sharif is getting more funnier than @kapilsharmak9 day by day. #laughter #challenge #kashmir #baloch
joy	tweets	Nawaz Sharif is getting more funnier than @kapilsharmak9 day by day.  #challenge #kashmir #baloch
joy	tweets	@tomderivan73 😁...I'll just people watch and enjoy a rare show of optimism
joy	tweets	I love my family so much #lucky #grateful #smartassfamily  #love
joy	tweets	I love my family so much #lucky #grateful #smartassfamily #hilarious #love
joy	tweets	@Casper10666 I assure you there is no laughter, but increasing anger at the costs, and arrogance of Westminster.
joy	tweets	If any trump supporters and Hillary haters wanna chirp some weak minded, pandering liberals just tweet at @EmmyA2 @snickerfritz04
joy	tweets	Google caffeine-an sprightly lengthening into the corridor re seo: WgJ
joy	tweets	This tweet is dedicated to my back pain, which I do not understand because I am youthful and spry. Full of life. Vivacious.
joy	tweets	@Bluebelle89 @lsmith855 liking the optimism
joy	tweets	Be it a rainy day, be it cheerful sunshine, I am a Prussian, want nothing to be but a Prussian.:|
joy	tweets	@Gronnhair @buryprofs @DittoBistro it was indeed lovely and the team were incredibly attentive and on the ball. Cheese was a lively gesture!
joy	tweets	@Geminiak @LondonNPC you're welcome! #wordgeek \nAlso, good to put a face to the twitter feed, even if it was only a cheery hello! 😀
joy	tweets	...at your age, the heyday in the blood is tame...' @TheArtofCharm #shakespeareaninsults #hamlet #elizabethan #williamshakespeare
joy	tweets	i was so embarrassed when she saw us i was like knvfkkjg she thinks we're stalkers n then she starts waving all cheerfully inviting us in 😩
joy	tweets	Good #CX most often doesn't require all that much. #smile, #care, #relate and be #helpful. Thanks, Lakis Court Hotel in #cyprus
joy	tweets	4-2 Canada final tomorrow #WCH #Predictions #optimism #Canadian 🇨🇦
joy	tweets	I turn 25 in two weeks. I am so happy. 24 was my darkest year yet. I am elated that I survived
joy	tweets	TheNiceBot: IndyMN I thought the holidays could not get any more cheerful, and then I met you. #TheNiceBot #الخفجي
joy	tweets	The smell of freshly cut grass didn't even cheer me up...boy oh boy
joy	tweets	@NateBLoL no it was that clear American naturally flavored sparkling water
joy	tweets	A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a broken spirit saps a person's strength.' {Proverbs 17:22} #WednesdayWisdom
joy	tweets	Somebody who has braved the storm is brewing. #cheerful
joy	tweets	Somebody who has braved the storm is brewing.
joy	tweets	Ready for that nice, breezy, calm, sunshine weather.🍂🍁 #Autumn
joy	tweets	it gets better. without explanation; you just wake up one morning and you’re just happy, totally and utterly elated.
joy	tweets	Imagine how sad LA fans are gona be when they get eliminated...Man that's gonna be Nirvana, a religious experience rejoicing in their misery
joy	tweets	Heather that was #hilarious! @MsHeatherBates @pattonoswalt @chrishansen #AnthonyWeiner #15gets20 #NYC
joy	tweets	Val reminds me of one of the cheerful witches that looks after Aurora in Disney’s Sleeping Beauty. #GBBO
joy	tweets	@GameGrumps THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR COMING TO DETROIT I'm going to sob joyful rainbows now brb
joy	tweets	So far ours greet have raised £250 for @HGatChristmas with more to come in #sparkling @CllrJohnFox @simoncotton69
joy	tweets	Each day is what you make of it! #goals #challenges #business #goals   #success #photographer #photography #ThursdayThoughts
joy	tweets	Each day is what you make of it! #goals #challenges #business #goals #optimism #happy #success #photographer #photography #ThursdayThoughts
joy	tweets	If you don't respond to an email within 7 fays, you wifl be killed by an animated gif of the girl from The Ring.
joy	tweets	It's #HobbitDay! \nHobbit's give gifts on their birthdays, so I'm sharing the gift of #glee today! Find something that makes you happy!
joy	tweets	incredible that anthony weiner has been caught chasing a busty milkmaid across a park at double speed while jaunty music plays
joy	tweets	@len_snart Mick nods. 'I would like that.' He went back to his food, smiling as he finished it.
joy	tweets	@yungdoujin wouldn't that basically be sparkling water
joy	tweets	I'm absolutely in love with Laurie Hernandez, she's so adorable and is always so cheerful!
joy	tweets	@HunterDean_ [he gives a gleeful squeak and wraps around you] All mine!
joy	tweets	@diehimbeertonis She developed her 'forced smile'. I can force myself to describe it 'a little hearty maybe, sanki biraz':)
joy	tweets	When we give cheerfully and accept gratefully, everyone is blessed. »Maya Angelou
joy	tweets	A #new day to #live and #smile. Hope all the #followers a nice #night or #day. :D
joy	tweets	@DocBellsSwan *peers down at you, eyes crinkling with mirth and affection* I do love ye so, my bonnie Belle.
joy	tweets	@bruins_514 @gorddownie @thehipdotcom It would be #TragicallyHip if they can #help @TOYSFORASMILE make #hospitalized  #sick #kids #smile 😊✌❤
joy	tweets	Chris would take full responsibility and would want us all to rejoice in the memories we all had with him.
joy	tweets	@Communism_Kills i get the subway melt and make sure it's only hearty italian bread... black olives are a must though
joy	tweets	@hesham786 that's the spirit #optimism
joy	tweets	@hesham786 that's the spirit
joy	tweets	If yiu don't respond .o an email within 7 days, you willxbe killed by an animated gif of the girl froa The Ri.g.
joy	tweets	@harrietemmett great minds think alike. #rejoice
joy	tweets	@harrietemmett great minds think alike.
joy	tweets	Dolores.' A thin lipped smile graced glossed lips as she let blues peer over at the woman. ' A constant delight.. As always.'
joy	tweets	@airtelindia have some issues with my broadband bill ,I am charged for the month before I signed up with airtel.. #hilarious
joy	tweets	@airtelindia have some issues with my broadband bill ,I am charged for the month before I signed up with airtel..
joy	tweets	@Bridget_Jones was joyous. Worried I would be disappointed. Most definitely was not. #chickflick #giggles #comethefuckonbridget
joy	tweets	Metal keeps you young and spry and keeps your hair luxurious.\n\nYES\n\nSHUT UP AND LISTEN TO ME
joy	tweets	I hate it when im singing and some idiot thinks they can just join in with me like...this is not fcking glee #MeanRikonaBot
joy	tweets	@chencouture LMAO Is it that 'so slutty' hater girl? That video was hilarious. 😂
joy	tweets	@MichiganBromo Good optimism sir :)
joy	tweets	@billie21806 @cnnbrk tell that to your bodies cheering on the deaths of black people by cops. their fear is killing us.
joy	tweets	@MacDsmash you should get some @SSB_Swedish delight
joy	tweets	@kwelbyroberts they will come and you will rejoice at their arrival.
joy	tweets	[Moment of levity on the B41] Baby: I want ISIS! Give me ISIS!\nMom: Shh!\nBaby: I want ISIS!\nWest Indian woman: She wants what?\nMom: *Ices*.
joy	tweets	@tomlinmayniac starting my new challenge ! A glee poll every day !
joy	tweets	How can l rule my mind !!!!!! \nIt's hilarious that you can't 😭😑😮
joy	tweets	A lifetime of laughter at the expense of the death of a bachelor
joy	tweets	Our tone of voice: we're like One Direction, we're thoughtful and timid, yet playful
joy	tweets	Sioux Valley wins home competitive #cheer invite with a score of 158. ...Dell Rapids second at 138
joy	tweets	Tutoring gives me such an exhilarating feeling. I love helping people 😌
joy	tweets	@PhilGlutting Hey There Phil Glutting thank you for following us, it's appreciated :) #smile
joy	tweets	@PhilGlutting Hey There Phil Glutting thank you for following us, it's appreciated :)
joy	tweets	It feels good to get outside for a minute and get some fresh air.  It's hard to stay cooped up inside all day #breezy
joy	tweets	It feels good to get outside for a minute and get some fresh air.  It's hard to stay cooped up inside all day
joy	tweets	@r0Ils ppl get triggered over u smiling they're irrelevant
joy	tweets	@GigaFag @pipertownsend_ snapchat new would beg to differ #optimism
joy	tweets	@GigaFag @pipertownsend_ snapchat new would beg to differ
joy	tweets	A hearty Jonza! to all my friends and follower.
joy	tweets	You must be knowing #blithe means (adj.)  Happy, cheerful.
joy	tweets	Old saying 'A #smile shared is one gained for another day' @YEGlifer @Scott_McKeen
joy	tweets	Bridget Jones' Baby was bloody hilarious 😅 #BridgetJonesBaby
joy	tweets	@Elaminova sparkling water makes your life sparkly
joy	tweets	I'm tired of everybody telling me to chill out and everythings ok. no the fuck its not. I'm tired of faking a a fucking smile
joy	tweets	#GBBO can cheer me up ☺️
joy	tweets	&amp; as much as I hate for a dude to cheat, women forego pleasing their man, they get lazy &amp; men get lazy &amp; then it's just pointless
joy	tweets	@GOT7Official @jrjyp happy birthday jin young!!!!!! #PrinceJinyoungDay #happyjinyoungday #got7  #birthday
joy	tweets	@GOT7Official @jrjyp happy birthday jin young!!!!!! #PrinceJinyoungDay  #happyjinyoungday #got7 #happy #birthday
joy	tweets	The race advances only by the extra achievements of the individual. You are the individual. ~Charles Towne\n #optimism #inspire
joy	tweets	The race advances only by the extra achievements of the individual. You are the individual. ~Charles Towne\n  #inspire
joy	tweets	Watching football matches without commentary is something that I rejoice, found a transmission of City’s match like that today, joyful.
joy	tweets	#twd comes on soon #happy
joy	tweets	#twd comes on soon
joy	tweets	@TauDeltaPhiDK THANK YOU FOR MY OBAMA CUT OUT!!!!!! I am elated that he's back home😍
joy	tweets	@DDogsScout 'Oh!' Almost with odd cheerfulness, Big Boss offers: 'Muzzle flash blinding. Accidental by the guy who became my best friend.'
joy	tweets	Gemma Simmons is the bright spot of the premiere so far. #AgentsofSHIELD
joy	tweets	This is a beautiful day that the Lord has made. I will rejoice and be glad!!!
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @kelli.peterson #lively #musically.   Come WATCH
joy	tweets	Sometimes I like to talk about my sadness.  Other times, I just want to be distracted by friends, laughter, shopping, eating...  \n\n#MHChat
joy	tweets	Oi @THEWIGGYMESS you've absolutely fucking killed me.. 30 mins later im still crying with laughter.. Grindah.. Grindah... 🤓  hahahahahahaha
joy	tweets	So happy I live in NYC! See you tomorrow .....@SamHeughan @Barbour
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges, so that you may feel the exhilaration of victory.
joy	tweets	For what a beautiful day. #elated
joy	tweets	For what a beautiful day.
joy	tweets	@Langston_Hunter Yeah bro it eas hella exhilarating
joy	tweets	sometimes im sad then remember Margaret Thatcher is dead and then i rejoice
joy	tweets	This is not me brown nosing but I've listened to lots of housing ministers but @GavinBarwellMP #nhf16 impressed me more than any
joy	tweets	This is not me brown nosing but I've listened to lots of housing ministers but @GavinBarwellMP #nhf16 impressed me more than any #optimism
joy	tweets	@APkrawczynski   Any possibly KG is being bought out as a player so that he can buy in from Glen as a minority owner?  #optimism
joy	tweets	Martin Roth leaving V&amp;A shoes the effects of #Brexit: bright and talented foreigners made to feel unwelcome and leaving U.K. #c4news
joy	tweets	one thing I can say is that you kept me smiling
joy	tweets	#blackish always has me #rollin #hilarious
joy	tweets	#blackish always has me #rollin
joy	tweets	How is your toddler coping with the new arrival? Has he tried killing her yet?' they cheerfully ask.
joy	tweets	American Schools are lively
joy	tweets	Drawing mini-comics is joyful; folding mini-comics is meditative and relaxing. I think I need to do them for more than just Halloween...
joy	tweets	@Malkarii_ Korgoth of Barbaria for brutality, King Julian for hilarity, and Ariel... Because hot...
joy	tweets	i love those #memories that randomly pop\ninto my head , have me #smiling like an\n#idiot for ages 󾌴
joy	tweets	@TurtleTitan2003 (She laughed a bit. Of course it was! Aria shook her head, calming her mirth so she could listen to Mikey.) No, actually. +
joy	tweets	@IreneEstry can't wait to see you Hun #cuddles #gossip #laughter
joy	tweets	@IreneEstry can't wait to see you Hun #cuddles #gossip
joy	tweets	God hears your voice optimism at the moment that you think that everything has failed you ✨.
joy	tweets	My bf drove out of his way after a long day just to spend 15 min holding me to make me feel better. How'd I get so lucky #lucky #happy
joy	tweets	My bf drove out of his way after a long day just to spend 15 min holding me to make me feel better. How'd I get so lucky #lucky
joy	tweets	Love this! Laughing while crying works too! #katherinemansfield #failure #laughter #dealingwithfailure
joy	tweets	Love this! Laughing while crying works too! #katherinemansfield #failure  #dealingwithfailure
joy	tweets	They tend to loosen up a bit when drunk, and can seem pretty cheerful.
joy	tweets	🍦🎿 god chirp this burp 🎿🍦
joy	tweets	We so elated, we celebrated like Obama waited until his last day in office to tell the nation, brothers is getting their reparations
joy	tweets	angel delight is my everything
joy	tweets	I just want to let everyone out there know you are wonderful people! #beyourself #happy #cheerful #late-night #compliment #behappy
joy	tweets	I just want to let everyone out there know you are wonderful people! #beyourself   #late-night #compliment #behappy
joy	tweets	#terribledebatequestions has given me so many laughs this afternoon! Thanks Twitter! #hilarious #cleverpeople
joy	tweets	#terribledebatequestions has given me so many laughs this afternoon! Thanks Twitter!  #cleverpeople
joy	tweets	@paraplyene @soupper i just read it and it's so fun??!!!! So lighthearted and cheerful, i was right, it's a double cavity for me.
joy	tweets	I'm at the point in my life that I'm playing Christmas music in my room because i need winter and joyful times rn
joy	tweets	Luis Ortiz ducked by Ustinov which means fights off, and he left @GoldenBoyBoxing future not looking to bright for Ortiz #boxing
joy	tweets	Another joyful encounter in Tribez &amp; Castlez! I just met Bartolomeo! Do you want to know who that is? Download the game and find out!
joy	tweets	@CarolynTopol Ciara asks was it a sci-fi movie, Julie &amp; Jen just stare, Claire on her phone, Joey bolts when the cab honks. LMAO #hilarious
joy	tweets	@CarolynTopol Ciara asks was it a sci-fi movie, Julie &amp; Jen just stare, Claire on her phone, Joey bolts when the cab honks. LMAO
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday @Brooke56_56 #cheer #cheerchick #jeep #jeepgirl #IDriveAJeep #jeepjeep #Cheer
joy	tweets	The little sniffle at the end of the song gets me every time. #rejoice
joy	tweets	The little sniffle at the end of the song gets me every time.
joy	tweets	I mean, is she supposed to seem joyous when she's talking Rodrigo Duterte, ISIS, the American economy, etc.? Think about what you're saying.
joy	tweets	@XenoStateOfMind yes\n\nmake her smile and be happy\nshe deserves happiness
joy	tweets	Keep smiling :)
joy	tweets	Ever wake up and instantly feel happy?
joy	tweets	@jpodhoretz I still respect you. I suppose there is so little to be gleeful about these days so take what you can. Good for you.
joy	tweets	@amstrado_CPC @ShittySUFanart the single tear is him being joyous that he's deleted the monster that has brought generations of despair
joy	tweets	#Quoteoftheday\r\r'If you don't do #wild things while you're young, you'll have nothing to #smile about when you're old.'\r\r#dailyquote #quotes
joy	tweets	All the bright places :(
joy	tweets	I'm honored to take on such a role in their joyous day. Hopefully I don't fuck it up
joy	tweets	I'm the reason I smile everyday 💯
joy	tweets	@NoorBazzi14 lowkey I want to go just to chirp Anna LOL but say hi to Atkins for me!! One of my favourite coaches, he's smart and caring
joy	tweets	It's all about #redwine and #glee
joy	tweets	It's all about #redwine and
joy	tweets	@tabstamlyn @lara_hunt1 I will, next time I'll make sure everything is sparkling clean
joy	tweets	Take my kindness for weakness when you acting silly keeping it 100 ain't your forté  #ChrisBrown #TeamBreezy
joy	tweets	Take my kindness for weakness when you acting silly keeping it 100 ain't your forté #breezy #ChrisBrown #TeamBreezy
joy	tweets	I envy the relentless, your cheerful smile aimed at the pouring rain, your positive attitude is an art you have continually mastered.
joy	tweets	I'm moving this weekend &amp; my sugar daddy will replace it so, it is what it is. Niggas still happy.
joy	tweets	Anyone who drinks sparkling water is a demon
joy	tweets	Modern family never fails to cheer me up. Especially Phil.
joy	tweets	#smile #instagramers : #Selfie#BestMeSelfie#Me#Smile#BestMeCameraIsGreat#EmojiGrid#LikeforLike#Friend#Girl#Boy#Tattoos#Family#6Pack#G...
joy	tweets	@Author_LB Awesome. My 9 yr old grandson runs cross country. No Simon Whitfield but still a lot of fun cheering him on.
joy	tweets	18' \nMichael Carrick as struck the back of the net much to the delight of under pressure man u fanz and MOU...
joy	tweets	@ruthwalford95 you may be right, but since year the bad events begin with B, I'm privately hoping we've got at least C-Z to go 1st #optimism
joy	tweets	@ruthwalford95 you may be right, but since year the bad events begin with B, I'm privately hoping we've got at least C-Z to go 1st
joy	tweets	@ditzkoff @jpodhoretz There’s not a metaphor in the world that will get at the hilarity of jpod pronouncing on humor.
joy	tweets	Successful people always have two things on their lips #silence nd #smile smile to avoid problems nd silence to avoid the problems too
joy	tweets	in geometry today hannah started crying of laughter because ms. canning said 'pp' lol
joy	tweets	@WHUFC_HUB @westhamtransfer @TheHammers_ I don't see any reason for optimism at this point. Just stringing together bad performances.
joy	tweets	y'all shabazz's name in my phone is 'easy breezy beautiful' &amp; I will not apologize.
joy	tweets	During the day @JeffProbst is jovial. At #TribalCouncil he's a different,  darker fellow.  Still simply but smiles are few. #Survivor
joy	tweets	🎉 It is time for a most joyous celebration! 🎉
joy	tweets	@FilthyFrank My first time watching your vids and i died of laughter. Keep this up dude
joy	tweets	@DumTeeDum don't think Ian knew of Pavel. He knew about Charlie. I bet Rob will cackle with glee when he heard what has happened #thearchers
joy	tweets	Mou is too jovial and trying to impress those players too much. No player is bigger than manutd. SAF won't tolerate all this bs @ManUtd
joy	tweets	Your #smile is a messenger of your good will.
joy	tweets	imagine if teppu got animated by madhouse tho &gt;_&lt;
joy	tweets	I'm highly animated even though I'm decomposing.
joy	tweets	jk. started this week strong and it's still going strong. #optimism
joy	tweets	jk. started this week strong and it's still going strong.
joy	tweets	 @cailamarsai you've had me   the whole time watching @black_ishABC after you've lost your #glasses! It was #hilarious! @mrbabyboogaloo
joy	tweets	Town is lively. Something happen?
joy	tweets	So today, I un armed my silence. My lungs rejoice in freedom. My insides had color too! A woman counted! My jawbone became a razor! For free
joy	tweets	@SQLBek My liver is elated that isn't us
joy	tweets	Symmetry is Key, everything must be aesthetically pleasing as possible, that is why I hold you twin pistols. #DeathTheKid #Bot
joy	tweets	Oii oiii, @Louis_Tomlinson !!  \nTHANK YOU for always making me smile ! MY BIRTHDAY is in 16 days. 🎉 Mind following me as a gift ? 🎁 X225,884
joy	tweets	@Steeeevie_ breezy luvvvv
joy	tweets	My @timehop literally cracks me up when I see posts from 2 years ago and later 😂
joy	tweets	My @timehop literally cracks me up when I see posts from 2 years ago and later 😂 #hilarious
joy	tweets	@ByeKandace can't cheer for a jigaboo
joy	tweets	@daveweigel a laurel and hearty handshake
joy	tweets	@Bhavnay that, i dont mind too much. smoother, thicker texture. makes it more hearty. also, im glad iced coffee is a thing in the uk now.
joy	tweets	@LeeJarvis10 can't be following u pal he's smiling
joy	tweets	love to play underlord while listening to cheery anime music
joy	tweets	It's an exhilarating feeling. Working hard and feeling accomplished whether they notice or not--- you feel fu*king good 🤑
joy	tweets	Starting at 22 minutes, this week's @bestshow4life is straight-up paradigm shift level mirth.
joy	tweets	someone teach me how to cheer someone up
joy	tweets	@GreatDismal @Bencjacobs and it’s gleeful because they’re so inspired, so convinced they’re winning and at last have their strongman
joy	tweets	Avoiding hearty basset hound no time present-time american the brave: YDXef
joy	tweets	alternate reality where @PoetryFound has a comments section and you can give poems a cheery thumbs up or a disappointed thumbs down
joy	tweets	@ThatBritishDude no okay you don't not need to be going out of your way to make sure you are pleasing everyone do what makes you happy
joy	tweets	and I think some of our most spiritually weighty experiences came, counterintuitively and recognized in hindsight, in levity and daily grace
joy	tweets	@TheGoatShow @GameGrumps now that I have been sucked into this wormhole of hilarity with no escape, I can say how weird and accurate this is
joy	tweets	@p_dortch7 I make sacrifices to make you happy
joy	tweets	I'm ever so cheerful
joy	tweets	@MarkDice Agreed.So tired of this nonsense . Soros must be elated.
joy	tweets	@Get_Quenched16 Attempts by Western degenerates 2 imply that DPRK stoops to levity will be met by devastating nuclear retaliation.
joy	tweets	Girlfriends cooking me dinner again. spag blow it is, not to sure if she need my help 😂😂 #girlfriends #happy
joy	tweets	Girlfriends cooking me dinner again. spag blow it is, not to sure if she need my help 😂😂 #girlfriends
joy	tweets	Hannah: 'This week on Survivor: Find out who is more buoyant. Gen X or Millenials!' #survivor
joy	tweets	Could not be happier!! #happy
joy	tweets	Could not be happier!!
joy	tweets	@joemrusso happy birthdayyyyyy pretty. Miss you!
joy	tweets	🍃When #life shows you have a hundred reasons to cry, show it that you have a hundred and one reasons to #smile. 🍃 #quotes @Mind_Console
joy	tweets	A #smile can mean a thousand words, but it can also hide a thousand #problems. #Fact #TeamFollowBack
joy	tweets	Gen 8:21 NIV—The Lord smelled the pleasing aroma and said in his heart: “Never again will I… lifelong depravity
joy	tweets	Such merriment &amp; laughter from @dadwroteaporno at @KingsPlace &amp; an instructional PowerPoint presentation.Well done to all concerned &amp; thanks
joy	tweets	But uncle buck is on tho . #UncleBuck #hilarious
joy	tweets	But uncle buck is on tho . #UncleBuck
joy	tweets	Every time people push #Prescription Pot, prohibitionists rub their hands with #glee because U hand them #Cannabis &amp; yourself into #slavery.
joy	tweets	@ChrisLoesch @DLoesch Modern Day book-burning without all that awful guilt. Oh, and now with more gleeful social sharing for the a$$hats.
joy	tweets	✨you make me happy @EthanDolan @GraysonDolan✨
joy	tweets	#IfIWerePresident \nMy goal would be for us all to be miserable, yet jovial in the Co. of others. U know, civil but with realization of self.
joy	tweets	Learning is key while converting your leaning to someone else is door, so when you do both you will open the door of success.\n\n#x33 #smile
joy	tweets	Learning is key while converting your leaning to someone else is door, so when you do both you will open the door of success.\n\n #x33
joy	tweets	Iniesta still the one player I idolize from Barca,a delight to watch I tell you
joy	tweets	Every time I hear @jtkantor's organ kick in on the new @sayswhopodcast, I break into the goofiest smile.
joy	tweets	Well, this is cheery. #MrRobot
joy	tweets	@Gennneral thanks gen!! Love you miss you happy birthday natong duha 💘💘
joy	tweets	#survivor is back! #SurvivorMillennialsVsGenX so happy to see you @JeffProbst
joy	tweets	#survivor is back! #SurvivorMillennialsVsGenX so happy to see you @JeffProbst #happy
joy	tweets	@essdotX the jovial and forgiving negro is always pressed upon to act against his/her self-interest in favor of the oppressor
joy	tweets	@ReginalTSquirge you could add a jaunty bow\nOr bells
joy	tweets	tweet tweet chirp chirp losers
joy	tweets	Be content .... Life is too short. #smiling
joy	tweets	Be content .... Life is too short.
joy	tweets	@npagliaro1 That's awesome!  p.s. ok, what are the odds of that, swapping neighborhoods? #hilarious
joy	tweets	@npagliaro1 That's awesome!  p.s. ok, what are the odds of that, swapping neighborhoods?
joy	tweets	I'm so excited to see Nat tonight 😍😍.. And how happy and cheery she is! &amp; then I'm even more excited for her to get on social media 😍 #BB18
joy	tweets	“Set up as an ideal the facing of reality as honestly and as cheerfully as possible.” - Karl Menninger     #2ndHalfWealth
joy	tweets	what's the nicest way to tell someone cheerfully whistling outside my apartment door that I will end them should they continue to whistle
joy	tweets	@xiankiefer @TheLincoln Book 5! It's so sprightly &amp; fun cuz he'd been reinvigorated by the Harry Potter series. I'm not kidding.
joy	tweets	How's it possible to go from cheery earlier to the worst mood possible now🙄
joy	tweets	3 Styles to Love now at Zales!  Three sparkling styles to love! Stop by and shop in store today.
joy	tweets	Kinda wished I watched mischievous kiss before playful kiss
joy	tweets	Accept challenges in life, so that you may feel the exhilaration of victory.
joy	tweets	@MariamVeiszadeh why sick. I am rejoicing that it is only half
joy	tweets	@Tjsotomayor snow pig,  that's hilarious. Lmaooo
joy	tweets	“Set a goal to achieve something that is so big, so exhilarating that it excites you and scares you at the same time.” \n― Bob Proctor
joy	tweets	This Red Sox team is the equivalent of Tiger Woods in his heyday: no mercy.
joy	tweets	wanna always be the reason behind her happiness and i'll always keep her smiling no matter what happens♒💜.
joy	tweets	Did u laugh today? Laugh hard? I hope so..we NEED laughter now.  #love
joy	tweets	Did u laugh today? Laugh hard? I hope so..we NEED laughter now. #smile #love
joy	tweets	@peregrinator1 I admittedly went into this series thinking we'd see the Jedi in their heyday, not as dysfunctional UN Peacekeepers in space
joy	tweets	me taking a picture by myself: *awkward smile*\nme on picture day: *awkward smile*\nconclusion: stop smiling ;'(\n#pictureday2016 #smile #ornot
joy	tweets	Wishing the Ipswich Tigers good luck in their games throughout homecoming week!! We are cheering you on here at the City Office! GO TIGERS!
joy	tweets	My ukulele bag has fallen apart.  WELLL AT LEAST my life hasn't yet!! #Joys\n\n#quote  #problemsolving #behappy
joy	tweets	It is so exhilarating taking on the challenge of demonstrating + explaining WHY #JamesJoyce's #Ulysses is so endearing &amp; wonderful!
joy	tweets	Yesterday , on 21 Sept. 2016 , i installed a new stratagem including audacity by rejoicing at Harbour tower,i will tenaciously follow up up.
joy	tweets	@partydelightsUK it's 5679787. Cannot DM you as we don't follow each other. Not such a #delight #party #fail #letdown
joy	tweets	@partydelightsUK it's 5679787. Cannot DM you as we don't follow each other. Not such a  #party #fail #letdown
joy	tweets	Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. Romans 12:12
joy	tweets	@wahrbear @marinarchy @diam0ndsapph1re There is some hilarity in someone who is literally openly anti-science calling others anti-science.
joy	tweets	smoking weed while you watch 12 pull somebody else over is the most joyous thing ever.
joy	tweets	And girl I love your perfume there's something bout you 🎧
joy	tweets	And girl I love your perfume there's something bout you 🎧 #breezy
joy	tweets	Watching @melissamccarthy in #Spy she's one of Favorite actresses! Last night I was watching her #theboss #hilarious I just want to meet her
joy	tweets	@BjerkeDanielle @FunnySayings lol that's hilarious
joy	tweets	ninaturner: Mine too. With what is happening in country, I needed this moment of levity bernblade LisaVikingstad
joy	tweets	Manchester United v Manchester City #happy days #EFL
joy	tweets	@LostGermain ' Want to have a spar?' The prince smiles and reaches for his hilt and his icy eyes keep on Aaron, a playful look in his eyes.
joy	tweets	Accept the #challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory.
joy	tweets	Yes Mourinho, you really should stop speaking about refs! And try cheering up a bit.
joy	tweets	TheNiceBot: WSJNordics You make the world a more joyful place. #TheNiceBot #MPN #DemiLovato
joy	tweets	@SeveChambers i'm elated, thank you for your help! can i apply to be verified?
joy	tweets	The world needs more laughter, more love, and a little more of you. - R.M Drake.
joy	tweets	#bcwinechat what's the most common method used to make BC #sparkling #wine?
joy	tweets	#bcwinechat what's the most common method used to make BC  #wine?
joy	tweets	@DavuuWart this is hilarious !!
joy	tweets	@kermischocolate I have tried. A cheerful upbeat piece in Walking through History, usually in arty/docu types. Cannot find a trace of it.
joy	tweets	Not by wrath does one kill, but by laughter.  Friedrich Nietzsche #friedrichnietzsche
joy	tweets	#happiness #recipe: an open mind, #laughter, a kind #heart &amp; #optimism
joy	tweets	#happiness #recipe: an open mind, #laughter, a kind #heart &amp;
joy	tweets	@Za_buhmaid Happy birthday sweety .. sweet 21 hun hope u have a wonderful day and a wondrful joyful year better than the last one, Luv U ♥
joy	tweets	I'm Black, 43. I read books, p/u my kids from school....'My prayer is that u wl lv a long, fulfilling, joyous, peaceful, GOD-pleasing life!
joy	tweets	A #smile doesn't always mean a person is #happy . Sometimes it simply means they are #strong enough to face their own #problems .
joy	tweets	Needed levity: Hubs + I talking of @weareTYPHOON Kyle's new solo album, my 7 yo says '@KyleClark'? She loves ur news show #9News @9NEWS LOLZ
joy	tweets	@ankitaverma45 @honey5991 rejoicing over someone's sadness is bad but when #Karma  is cencerned then definitely some people deserve it..
joy	tweets	#SIGUEMEYTESIGO #happy #snapchat Manuellynch99 #venezuela
joy	tweets	@JessicaZ00 @ZRlondon ditto!! Such an amazing atmosphere! #PhilippPlein #cheerleaders #stunt #LondonEvents
joy	tweets	@JessicaZ00 @ZRlondon ditto!! Such an amazing atmosphere! #PhilippPlein #cheerleaders #stunt #LondonEvents #cheer
joy	tweets	A delight to be at the Lane tonight and witness the debuts of some young talent that could be the backbone of our club!! #COYS
joy	tweets	@tweet_faver its reaper!! before he became reaper, you can find their stories on the wiki and thru the comics and animated shorts!
joy	tweets	Remember when Joe and Quinn had a thing on glee
joy	tweets	I'm still laughing 'Bitch took my pillow' line #glee #kurt
joy	tweets	I'm still laughing 'Bitch took my pillow' line  #kurt
joy	tweets	Nothing lovelier than your great mate sending the most joyful and sweet pic - Thankyou #amy @artburstltd XXXX
joy	tweets	@cedricyarbrough We love you! #hilarious   We are looking forward to SO much more!  #kudos on the #pilot @Speechless_ABC #speechless
joy	tweets	Eve, Izzy, and Paige cheerfully sing songs together.
joy	tweets	@JeffBridg man, GREAT JOB!!! I am more than happy over your success in a short time.  Mom &amp; dad are smiling from heaven.  Love you, bro.
joy	tweets	The jovial laughter that Trump and his lackeys showed when Don King used the N word was a truly bizarre sight
joy	tweets	@RayGemini I've got 8 coming back this week. It's so joyous isn't it haha
joy	tweets	i just spent $40 on big little sis tomorrow and i am beyond happy about it #SAW #mirth #mums
joy	tweets	i just spent $40 on big little sis tomorrow and i am beyond happy about it #SAW  #mums
joy	tweets	She'll be bribing her parents with hearty laughter and giggles :) #Loveet
joy	tweets	@Harry_Styles you're the smile to my face and the beat to my heart. Thanks for being kind as much as you can be. Mind following me?💓 96,127
joy	tweets	The #most wasteful day is a #day without #laughter
joy	tweets	The #most wasteful day is a #day without
joy	tweets	Good morning.Let's start with a smile!\nLet's enjoy life in a cheerful way!\nDon't worry be happy!
joy	tweets	Skiving #Freshers2016 for a me day! #nails #sunbeds and #gym 😉💜👑 #priorities #student #studentnurse #pampered #happy
joy	tweets	Skiving #Freshers2016 for a me day! #nails #sunbeds and #gym 😉💜👑 #priorities #student #studentnurse #pampered
joy	tweets	Half past midnight, loud banging on our front door, been told about new rape cases in Edinburgh today  #nosleep
joy	tweets	Half past midnight, loud banging on our front door, been told about new rape cases in Edinburgh today #joyful #nosleep
joy	tweets	@matildaswish it's great to see Matilda so happy in her new chair it will provide her with access to lots of new experiences. #smiling
joy	tweets	@matildaswish it's great to see Matilda so happy in her new chair it will provide her with access to lots of new experiences.
joy	tweets	Pakis are applauding Sharif's speech,i wonder how many really understood what he said!!!!\nThey are very much excited and happy
joy	tweets	How wonderful to see a show with a token man for once! #GlasgowGirls was uproarious, gleeful, important &amp; uplifting. Go see @stratfordeast!
joy	tweets	This night is sparkling, don't you let it go! I'm wonderstruck, blushing all the way home..' #ValerieBot
joy	tweets	Only person that could manage to get bright pink lipstick all over my brand new white dress 😩😂
joy	tweets	Life izn't about pleasing each others...😕\n\n #hell #with
joy	tweets	I gave up on the U20 Rugby bet on the Roosters! #cheering #nrl
joy	tweets	I gave up on the U20 Rugby bet on the Roosters!  #nrl
joy	tweets	@dee5479 Electro Set was pure enjoyment &amp; exhilarating, captivating, &amp; Poetic, Raw, exciting ..,
joy	tweets	Sharpened a pencil today, haven't sharpened once since 1999. ✏️ #exhilarating
joy	tweets	Sharpened a pencil today, haven't sharpened once since 1999. ✏️
joy	tweets	.@Travelanswerman: The possibilities R endless Becca when U unplug from the 'Matrix!' Stay salty and #happy #surfing! #sunset #aloha …
joy	tweets	You dont have to feel grateful to be grateful, for it is written  ' all things work together for good'  for those who love God. #cheerful
joy	tweets	You dont have to feel grateful to be grateful, for it is written  ' all things work together for good'  for those who love God.
joy	tweets	All i want to do is to be successful, be cheerful and to be happy with @DominicHussein
joy	tweets	Loving  #Pitch so far !! 🤗🤗🤗 @PITCHonFOX @Global_TV  #chills #smiling
joy	tweets	Loving  #Pitch so far !! 🤗🤗🤗 @PITCHonFOX @Global_TV #chills
joy	tweets	How sad is it that I'm rejoicing over a 72💀 #collegekills
joy	tweets	Banger sit in 2013 reason why we great doings him alias for why we rejoice in he.: kzfqR
joy	tweets	@beautyfulli_ami that guy in the back of your picture is hilarious
joy	tweets	Literally feels sg to be happy with sam😍
joy	tweets	jasperino - buoyant - Session.Six
joy	tweets	Class is canceled due to a funeral. Not sure if it's appropriate to be happy or sad..
joy	tweets	Class is canceled due to a funeral. Not sure if it's appropriate to be happy or sad.. #happy
joy	tweets	@CScheiwiller can't stop smiling 😆😆😆
joy	tweets	The amount of laughter ready to leave my body if United lose is unreal
joy	tweets	@WhoIsThisCaleb you could leap to your feet dramatically, plant one foot on the seat of your chair, and let out that jaunty tune!
joy	tweets	((things that grind my gears: people drawing gideon gleeful skinny
joy	tweets	The book that can start improving your relationship tonight.  Taking you on a journey of #fun, #laughter, #romance and #metaphysics.  htt…
joy	tweets	Nice Idea collect all relevant socialmedia in one-But dont be automatic pls #worldsapp ⬅️ #chirp #appsworld #socialmedia @DanielFeuer merci🎈
joy	tweets	I'm so so so excited for #UsernameRegenerated  I can't wait! I wish I could get a signed copy! I'm so happy for you. @Joe_Sugg
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it.\n#funny #pun #lol #hilarious #punny
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it.\n#funny #pun #punny #lol #hilarious
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it.\n#funny #pun #punny #hilarious #lol
joy	tweets	Niggas never changed...even as a kid and a 29 year old, in his interviews, seems jovial and happy after death of his sister...he did it
joy	tweets	*gets crushes on fictional and animated characters instead if real people*
joy	tweets	@MissRBBerry_ @BlaineHale_ @KurtStilinski_ @BeaconScott11 @SStilinski_24 I brought sparkling cider...*holds it up* I know it's not much
joy	tweets	Best quote from a 7 in German - Almost #happy
joy	tweets	Best quote from a 7 in German - Almost
joy	tweets	Love your new show @driverminnie  #hilarious
joy	tweets	@JoyAnnReid I totally understood his point, but we need a better messenger and the laughter just pissed me off! 😡
joy	tweets	@walterdonovanSS @mrb_rides_again evil, rich white men and their fucking cronies in intelligence/gov/academia using blithe blacks as fodder
joy	tweets	@rheafraserx took them an awfy long time to spot their goal was disallowed ☺️ #pleasing
joy	tweets	@rheafraserx took them an awfy long time to spot their goal was disallowed ☺️
joy	tweets	Proverbs  27:9 Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel.\n#TruthfmDawnBreak
joy	tweets	We have been a better second half team this season. So there's that. #optimism
joy	tweets	We have been a better second half team this season. So there's that.
joy	tweets	Function in regard to camshaft exhilaration companies: CQHshJSI
joy	tweets	Close to the end of a revision...taking this story I love in a new direction has been exhilarating for me. #endlesspossibilities #amwriting
joy	tweets	Being in the countryside all day was so pleasing
joy	tweets	@pi6ie I want to achieve to your level of optimism
joy	tweets	Come and join in with #cakeclubhour tomorrow afternoon from 3pm! #bizhour #chirp
joy	tweets	Come and join in with #cakeclubhour tomorrow afternoon from 3pm! #bizhour
joy	tweets	I'm always smiling so that's why I'm always happy 😂
joy	tweets	@barbarasgarden Thank you oh so much. There are many challenges but much rejoicing! ✨
joy	tweets	something about opening mail is just...very pleasing
joy	tweets	Happy #internationaldayofpeace everyone hoping that the world becomes a better place less division more happiness keep smiling. 😄😄❤️
joy	tweets	@yeldarbkered You've got quite the cheery young Souls fan. :)
joy	tweets	@B4caferacer I see things in  the clouds that others can't see so I can #elate
joy	tweets	@B4caferacer I see things in  the clouds that others can't see so I can
joy	tweets	@jmomahony thank you for your support, but it was not an attempt at levity.
joy	tweets	Ahh when my voice gets better I've been asked to play :D id be more than #happy to do that
joy	tweets	@Harry_Styles 💖\nHeart so pure and smile\nso bright, I love you\nmore than the number\nof stars at night.\nKindly follow me please\nHarry?\n—90,127
joy	tweets	@JackEvans711, you are the best Whiney Jerkass Heel since @IAmJericho's heyday in WCW. \n #LuchaUnderground
joy	tweets	I took a yr off school and I'm proud to say I got accepted again, yo girl is going to finish!
joy	tweets	I took a yr off school and I'm proud to say I got accepted again, yo girl is going to finish! #happy
joy	tweets	It's better to be wetter than it is to be dry'- Thanks for the tip Val. First #GBBO hearty guffaw of the week
joy	tweets	@alicereidy more of a hearty Italian man myself
joy	tweets	Hearing your parent say they're proud of you elicits infinite waves of unconceivable glee.
joy	tweets	Why bother tweeting poor men's? \nWhat good does it do?  If I'm unable to be cheery,  I go quiet.  Missed you,  btw
joy	tweets	The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty; he will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy; \nZephaniah 3:17 KJV
joy	tweets	@AiringOutMyScro \n\n'We'll see, once you're a few drinks in.' \n\nA playful wink is passed to him and, as they pull up into the small lot of -
joy	tweets	OMG NOL i love u so so much i love ur cheery face and hugs 😘😘😘 @CRAZYmac17
joy	tweets	@SquishyJiminie aww thank you!! I'm definitely feeling much better today and your messages cheer me up too ☺️
joy	tweets	@ATrumping hahahahahaha!! Oh gosh. You are hilarious. A black man trying to keep racism alive. Get out of here man.
joy	tweets	Happiness is a choice life isn't about pleasing everybody #ALDUB62ndWeeksary
joy	tweets	#chirp look out for them Cars coming from the Wesszzz
joy	tweets	Watching driven by food and @andrewzimmern going to Devon Ave to eat nihari makes me gleeful af
joy	tweets	💥⚖️Yeah‼️ PAUL‼️⚖️💥 #joyous #glorious #BB18
joy	tweets	Forgot to bring extra boxers to the Y so Im currently commando at Starbucks. This is exhilarating. I feel more liberated than Angelina Jolie
joy	tweets	#PeaceIsPossible when both party accept one another and rejoice together after #OndoGuber,Nov26. @JciOndokingdom @cuttie_dove @Lekibeat
joy	tweets	brennan cook and breezy should get back together😍😍😍
joy	tweets	On my way rejoicing, to the pulpit @ Park City Baptist Church, Surrey BC. for Midweek Service.
joy	tweets	Good Master Vernon, welcome, nephews, from Bellario :\nThere is my lord, that thou interrupt'st our merriment.
joy	tweets	Luke 1:14\nHe will be a joy and delight to you, and many will rejoice because of his birth
joy	tweets	“The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty; he will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy...”\nZephaniah 3:17
joy	tweets	Loving @Speechless_ABC so far. Just hilarious and @driverminnie is wonderful. #hilarious #Bravo 👏🏻👏🏻
joy	tweets	@seangrandillo I beg you, never stop smiling. You deserve to be happy and to know all the beautiful things that life can offers.
joy	tweets	@LBC_Charlotte just watched you on the great wall #hilarious 😆
joy	tweets	When ya'll talkin about you know who I don't know who ya'll talkin bout, I'm on the new shit....chuckin up ma deuces......🔥🔥 #kanye #breezy
joy	tweets	When ya'll talkin about you know who I don't know who ya'll talkin bout, I'm on the new shit....chuckin up ma deuces......🔥🔥 #kanye
joy	tweets	Great to meet @BrightonChoir @MJParanzino tonight. What a lively and enthusiastic bunch! Look forward to working with you again!
joy	tweets	The best part of this day, Jesus, is to snuggle up in your embrace...to rest in your arms and know you love me...💙❤ #sweetEmbrace
joy	tweets	The best part of this day, Jesus, is to snuggle up in your embrace...to rest in your arms and know you love me...💙❤ #sweetEmbrace #delight
joy	tweets	@mrfisher81 Just my attempt at levity 😉
joy	tweets	Forgot to thank @_JusDee_ and @djolder for sharing @therealpeela's day-making #happy video.
joy	tweets	Lucina, that's fantastic! When you feel cheery, we ALL feel cheery!
joy	tweets	May the optimism of tomorrow be your foundation for today.
joy	tweets	Well that was exhilarating. I didn't know you could have goosebumps for 2 hrs 5m straight.
joy	tweets	@_BlueCouture The hilarity of you people not realising that racism is racism regardless of whether one uses choice words is hilarious.
joy	tweets	@1barkcom Thank you for the #follow. Looking forward to your tweets as they look entertaining! #smile #socialmedia
joy	tweets	@1barkcom Thank you for the #follow. Looking forward to your tweets as they look entertaining!  #socialmedia
joy	tweets	@jay_roseee but that new breezy &amp; tiller 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥
joy	tweets	The feeling of taking someone's life is either scarring or exhilarating, but for people need to realize that we're going to die at some--
joy	tweets	Miss my lil caramel delight 💓
joy	tweets	some say my lover is a pale green light\nhe hovers high where the moon shines bright
joy	tweets	@AlohaJonathan @AtlantaFX all I've seen is that clip of the jail scene with the sexuality part which was hilarious
joy	tweets	@GreggDoyelStar I'm sure you'll have a heyday if they do
joy	tweets	There's a certain hilarity in people angry at protests against the national anthem or the flag when these acts are covered by 1st Amendment.
joy	tweets	that's my breezy breezy breezy that's my breezy that's my buzzinnnnnn.
joy	tweets	How did Ryan Murphy create both #AHS and #glee \nSo different
joy	tweets	But the lady at the store said I had nice eyelashes so that's good, right? #optimism? @verizon
joy	tweets	I love looking at my old statuses on Facebook. The one I have from four years ago on this day was about #glee. I had so many opinions...
joy	tweets	Hi Luke hemmings\n\n💐🌸💐\n\nIf I had a flower for every time you made me smile, I'd have a garden. Please follow me? \n\n💐🌸💐\nI love you. x16,092
joy	tweets	@Elliot_Eastwick just play rappers delight and have a 15 minute kip
joy	tweets	@OccasionalGod isn't that the reason horror is popular? the exhilaration that comes from discomfort is enjoyable -- watch The Green Room :D
joy	tweets	The true way to render ourselves #happy is to love our work and find in it our pleasure. Francoise de Motteville
joy	tweets	@RyuRedwings2 and I have discovered you can now send animated gifs over the updated iMessage
joy	tweets	Evening all. Don't forget it's #RobinHoodHour TONIGHT 🏹\n\n#bizitalk #bizhour #southyorkshire #MansfieldHour #chirp #sheffieldHour #NottsHour
joy	tweets	When my friends send me ballons and fireworks through text...#amazing #smiling
joy	tweets	When my friends send me ballons and fireworks through text... #amazing
joy	tweets	Every Wednesday I like to visit the inmates at Arkham. Deliver a fruit basket. And a cheery bouquet of enhanced interrogation.
joy	tweets	@7we4k LordDerply for it. It's like yugioh for animated shows!
joy	tweets	Ok, it seems there is still hope in BSNL 🙂\nNow, BB speed is ok 🙂\nBut I won't thank and elate much lest it be gone again like before 😐🙂
joy	tweets	And the weathers so breezy, man why can't life always be this easy?
joy	tweets	After this news I'm supposed to be so damn happy and rejoicing but I'm here like 😩😔😭😞
joy	tweets	@sophieRblake @SkySpeedway @Kelvin_Tatum @chrislouisIWSC no wonder Kelvin and Chris are smiling! 😍
joy	tweets	- blood and mucus and he chokes and has to swallow, mirth cut too short. 'Wrong answer.' It takes some awkward movements - @PersuasiveFuck
joy	tweets	gifs on iOS10 messaging app are hilarious.
joy	tweets	Do not #educate your child to be #rich, educate them to be #happy. So when they grow up, they'll know the #value of things, not the price.
joy	tweets	@strictlysimilak something about English sparkling wine would be good. Or farmhouse cider. Or Italian cocktails. Thanks.
joy	tweets	@JohnGDryden Gud morning sir,,keep smiling!
joy	tweets	@MaureenKamash that's a good question. I really don't know. I am slowly losing my optimism
joy	tweets	Traditionalists say it should be bored by or bored with, but not bored of, a 'rule' cheerfully ignored
joy	tweets	@lilymacintyre_ she was my favourite such a joyful soul
joy	tweets	#FF @ManihaAamir @adrence Keep on #smiling … !
joy	tweets	I WANNA GET UP AND DANCE!!!! (but everyone is in bed) this sucks! Everyone wake up!! 😯 #hyper #happy #letsdance #dirtydancinginthemoonlight👌
joy	tweets	I WANNA GET UP AND DANCE!!!! (but everyone is in bed) this sucks! Everyone wake up!! 😯 #hyper  #letsdance #dirtydancinginthemoonlight👌
joy	tweets	PM nawaz sharif adressed in uno produced mirth among kashmires well done pak wel done nawaz .we want demilterization
joy	tweets	But I got to see her last when she was lively and talkative and I was able to tell her I loved her so that's what matters.
joy	tweets	Go one extra mile just see her smiling
joy	tweets	@NFLonFOX @TheDoctorCarson @FOXSports Easy, breezy, beautiful...
joy	tweets	what does everyone have against sparkling water?!? such a bomb drink when you mix it with stuff
joy	tweets	@nerdist How cool would it be if @StephenByrne86 animated the scene
joy	tweets	@NHLstoreNYC  cheering for @TeamNA_WCH and @HC_Men
joy	tweets	@steenfox I'm feeling the exact same way. Also I read this in Akon's voice, it provided me with a hearty chuckle
joy	tweets	Haven't yet read why Dutch drivers are so happy, but here's my theory: because they could quit driving and still have great transpo options.
joy	tweets	The #chiropractor makes me so #happy.
joy	tweets	The #chiropractor makes me so .
joy	tweets	Swear I got the most playful ass bf ever 😂🙄
joy	tweets	WHY TF DO BROKE BOYS KEEP TRYNA FIND GF's? GET UR FUCKIN $$$ RIGHT B4 I SMACK YO BITCHASS, she deserves 2be happy &amp; u don't deserve that ass
joy	tweets	@1xfly you sir are hilarious
joy	tweets	@OtherkinOK @ParadisoAdam Very nice show guys! Now I have supported you, I expect you cheering at my @dublinmarathon on Oct 30th 😉😎👍
joy	tweets	To give cheerfully.
joy	tweets	I really hate Mel and Sue. They think they're hilarious and they're just awful
joy	tweets	Just died from laughter after seeing that😂😭😂😭
joy	tweets	@StephaliciousD afternoon delight
joy	tweets	And 9/10 the character is a woman. Because if a man is fat he's jovial. If a woman is fat she's useless and maybe evil amirite?
joy	tweets	I've watched @ScreamQueens' 2nd Season's 1st episode twice already. And here I am, still joyful, planning on watching it again.
joy	tweets	It is not joy that makes us #grateful . It is #gratitude that makes us #joyful .\n - David Rast
joy	tweets	Obfuscated magazines in passage to unite with in order to thine mirth conjunction treat quotient sufficiently: lEAqIWY
joy	tweets	@Coffeeking12 @jsavite I was injecting a little levity! The person who tweeted the coke/rape tweet is obviously an idiot
joy	tweets	IDC predicts that by 2020 the term cloud will no longer be used...'\n\nIT Managers and Administrators everywhere will rejoice.
joy	tweets	Too fucking playful
joy	tweets	@Lil_PowWow @jweiler0528 More fat = more buoyant. Day 1 water stuff
joy	tweets	pummeling cheerfully, jauntily, utterly one-sidedly makes us harder, better, faster, stronger
joy	tweets	@Cherie_Fitz it's being extremely playful
joy	tweets	@Tweetermeyer The animated version was better
joy	tweets	Job interview tomorrow 😎 #bright side
joy	tweets	Well stock finished &amp; listed, living room moved around, new editing done &amp; fitted in a visit to the in-laws. #productivityatitsfinest #happy
joy	tweets	Well stock finished &amp; listed, living room moved around, new editing done &amp; fitted in a visit to the in-laws. #productivityatitsfinest
joy	tweets	@alooftroye so what you mean to tell me is that.... glee is...... getting less........... gleeful?
joy	tweets	@davidplotz @Commentary She writes with sort of the same playful cynicism that you do! :)
joy	tweets	Our branch will be closed this Sunday, 9/25, in honor of the IRONMAN 70.3 happening in Downtown! Come cheer on race participants!
joy	tweets	@MillieetylerX I thought everyday was a glee day??
joy	tweets	As I remember and reflect on Reginald Denny on a night much like this (like #Charlotte) I think to myself, the gun lobby must be rejoicing.
joy	tweets	@_aiseela\nHe will rejoice over you with gladness, \nHe will renew you with His love, \nHe will rejoice over you with singing.
joy	tweets	Zeph 3:17 'The Lord...is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; He will rejoice over you with gladness; He will quiet you by his love'
joy	tweets	Yesterday is history, tomorrow is amystery, and today is a gift; that's why they call it the present #livelife #humbleness  #live
joy	tweets	Yesterday is history, tomorrow is amystery, and today is a gift; that's why they call it the present #livelife #humbleness #smile #live
joy	tweets	@iTriborg — make him feel vigorous. 'Fine. You can kill me now.' Said Hestia with a display of only despair rather than her joyful —
joy	tweets	These girls who are playful and childlike seem to have such lovely relationships. Can't imagine them having serious convos but it's cute  😍😍
joy	tweets	Keep #smiling because life is a beautiful thing and there's so much to #smile about. #MarilynMonroe #KeepSmiling
joy	tweets	As the birds chirp and the cows moo we need to listen to the sound of nature to ensure that all is well.
joy	tweets	Pain in both your hips during squats is a sign of youthfulness and being spry right? 🤐🤐🤐🤐
joy	tweets	Leon's cheerfulness is always a big help.
joy	tweets	did you know that the sparkling letters in Super Mario Galaxy spell out U R MR GAY
joy	tweets	Headed to Montalvo w/@jaxster3—bring on the #mirth, bitches!\nd(-_-)b\n@Nick_Offerman\n@MeganOMullally\n#SummerOf69Tour2016
joy	tweets	@mcharlesworth7 Forget the hair, that salon looks so light &amp; cheery! Would go there for a coffee &amp; read a book!
joy	tweets	its been ages since ive had shawarma my stomach is #rejoicing
joy	tweets	its been ages since ive had shawarma my stomach is
joy	tweets	It's so breezy I love it 🌬️🍃💛
joy	tweets	Lord Jesus, I don’t want to be in prison. I want to be free. Entice my heart with the beauty of Your truth &amp; allow me to rejoice in it. Amen
joy	tweets	@viquintis OH yeah; I never showed you that part of the session did I? I'll plop them into Discord. Pure hilarity.
joy	tweets	@lizbon @anomalily @gerikkransky Sorry for the levity if at all inappropriate but this combined with my love of Charlotte reminds me rn...
joy	tweets	A hearty thank you to you all for joining in tonight. Some delicious British dishes on your menus. #BeerClub
joy	tweets	@Y2JaKe85 yessir. Also cheering for Sweden bc of Lundqvist
joy	tweets	Tiller and breezy should do a collab album. Rapping and singing prolly be fire
joy	tweets	@FieldYates @MatthewBerryTMR @Stephania_ESPN @MikeClayNFL @FrankCaliendo goddamn...the 'celebrity' draft at the end was classic. #hilarious
joy	tweets	@FieldYates @MatthewBerryTMR @Stephania_ESPN @MikeClayNFL @FrankCaliendo goddamn...the 'celebrity' draft at the end was classic.
joy	tweets	@jtkola @danmericaCNN she's still younger and more spry than trump
joy	tweets	Lets get this Astros/A's game going already!  We're going to need all 5 of you in attendance to cheer the A's to victory!
joy	tweets	My morning started off amazing!! Hopefully the whole day is going as i want it to go!\n#GreatDay #optimism
joy	tweets	Let go of the need to need. And find your own joyous path through the richness that extends in every direction.
joy	tweets	May a man live well-, and long-enough, to leave many joyful widows behind him.
joy	tweets	@reinervshunter you got this💙 #staystrong #smile #yourebeautiful
joy	tweets	@reinervshunter you got this💙 #staystrong  #yourebeautiful
joy	tweets	I miss my naivety and blind optimism
joy	tweets	@SteveStratford9 @PaulTowheyJr @ClassicDrWho @BBC @bbcdoctorwho all those will get animated IMO. Companion changes/Monsters/Classics.
joy	tweets	CommunitySleepCoach: Look at these #narcoleptic #puppies. Make you #smile. If you are human &amp; find yourself in such odd positions, seek #th…
joy	tweets	Fun pizza night last night with the @PERFORMERS_COLL crew. What a gorgeous bunch of newbies ❤️ #lively #exciting 💪🏼
joy	tweets	Solange is more aesthetically pleasing than your fave.
joy	tweets	@Irenelove83 heres what we can do, Get Brock and Sable to tag team mr and mrs AWOL and watch with glee
joy	tweets	Give rise to eternal home aico things immolation: succeed in mother country exhilaration: AKt
joy	tweets	Always be full of joy in the Lord, I say it again- rejoice. Philippians 4:4
joy	tweets	@TeamGrout glee
joy	tweets	Congress attended by midterm liveliness differently constraints: qmiv
joy	tweets	Batman the animated series is a gift from the 90s animation gods
joy	tweets	@IcyEmmaX &lt; took another sip. “We’ve had some earth shattering, soul exhilarating sex. You think black souls can have that kind of &gt;
joy	tweets	...X, X... Do... you... hear... me? Darn... Your... optimism led... ...to your own... demise... ... You... should... li...live #ZeroBOT
joy	tweets	A warm #smile is the universal language of kindness William Arthur Ward #love #kindness
joy	tweets	Some People hate nothing more than a happy confident person. Never mind #happy #confident
joy	tweets	Some People hate nothing more than a happy confident person. Never mind  #confident
joy	tweets	Today I answered a call from a college rep who didn't realize I did, and I got to hear part of his lively debate about if evolution is real.
joy	tweets	@wenniss are you cheering for team Sweden today or team North American?
joy	tweets	@OkashoHime + returned her joyous focus to the pastel-haired girl. 'Wawa's okay, tooooo~!' She squealed before raising her eyebrows at the +
joy	tweets	@headfirst_dom I often imagine hoe our moon would feel meeting the jovial moons which are all special
joy	tweets	@sardesairajdeep @narendramodi. U seem 2 b more happy abt the dvlpt Nything dat fails for Modi make u elated even @the cost of de country?
joy	tweets	jstor's lingua obscura articles are always such a delight
joy	tweets	Reflection: the grind has been so REAL! Working 2 jobs &amp; being in school. #ksudsm #ksu #recruiter #instructor #tumble #cheer #gradschool
joy	tweets	Reflection: the grind has been so REAL! Working 2 jobs &amp; being in school. #ksudsm #ksu #recruiter #instructor #tumble  #gradschool
joy	tweets	@Johncrookshanks 'Elizabeth Smith!' She said with a cheery smile 'Pleasure to meet you, sir! Where have you travelled from?'
joy	tweets	#Taurus females are beautiful, sparkling jewels glowing in the moonlight.
joy	tweets	@JimRichMoriarty + I am in your life! *He yells* Surprise, surpriiise! *He chirps cheerfully, with a wicked grin on his lips*
joy	tweets	Coworker: 'That happened to a friend of mine once, but with guns instead of babies.' #workplace #hilarity
joy	tweets	Coworker: 'That happened to a friend of mine once, but with guns instead of babies.' #workplace
joy	tweets	I love this hearty negro laugh jade and @XavierDLeau let out re:lochte 😂😂
joy	tweets	@howcaniapply @radioscarboro Much to my delight!
joy	tweets	@LethbridgeCity I love how playful you guys are becoming -- both on- and offline! 🚗 🚕 🚙 #beepbeep
joy	tweets	Love your new show @driverminnie
joy	tweets	🔥💁🏼- its lit having a class with you!!! Your such a great person and good at cheer!!
joy	tweets	@Ginger_Naylor *Connie came back in* Hey you seem a bit more lively
joy	tweets	I fear that if United bottle this my heart would actually collapse from laughter.
joy	tweets	@BrianaBanksxoxo I send ya a few #playful nibbles 😉
joy	tweets	@ToyStoriesInt They look FAB, they were made for the big screen!Can't wait to see this evolve &amp; the bright future of these little toy people
joy	tweets	Lunatic Asylum: The place where optimism most flourishes.
joy	tweets	Good morning! Welcome the new day into your life and your heart #mindfulness #smile #zen
joy	tweets	Good morning! Welcome the new day into your life and your heart #mindfulness  #zen
joy	tweets	The LORD your God is in your midst—a warrior bringing victory. He will create calm with his love; he will rejoice over you with singing.
joy	tweets	@_wednesdaychild I need to cheer up
joy	tweets	@PAKallman If you get it going with him, tag me the link please. I have a lot of friends who love following his unintentional hilarity.
joy	tweets	@MisterSalesman @ThinkPostsDaily #smiling doesnt necessary means your happy.sometimes it just means you're strong!
joy	tweets	@WildRoverTours Thank you for follow and its a good website you have and cheering with no hassle.
joy	tweets	why is @Iongroadhome so aesthetically pleasing every single day they're even pretty when they just woke up, when they're tired, just. always
joy	tweets	@eleanor_binks at least Blake lively and Ryan Reynolds are still together, God bless what a beaut couple
joy	tweets	@MacEngelProf as a fact for levity, movie theaters on Post actually did play the N.A when I served; was the best part of movies like TheHulk
joy	tweets	Melissa Benoist and Grant Gustin HAVE to do a musical crossover episode! #glee origins #arrowverse
joy	tweets	@readanerd cheer up chuck😘
joy	tweets	in love with @BarberCeleste  insta!!!... #hilarious
joy	tweets	in love with @BarberCeleste  insta!!!...
joy	tweets	A presentations propensity for hilarity plays a large part in determining it's funny/offensive ratio and how well such thoughts will go over
joy	tweets	Pochettino buoyant. Complimentary about his young players. But says 'now our attention turns to Middlesbrough'. #THFC @BBCLondonSport
joy	tweets	Incredible that Nawaz Sharif said Pakistan is victim of terrorism &amp; talked abt development in Pak. Incredible how he controlled his laughter
joy	tweets	it's not the most comforting &amp; jubilant place to be, but I do find joy in doing what's best for me and being passionate abt company I keep.
joy	tweets	@BreezyWeekes hey breezy, you wanna give me some of that coffee you posted on your snap?? please
joy	tweets	crying because @msleamichele's snapchat is bringing on some serious #glee feels 😭❤
joy	tweets	Your future is bright. #Remember
joy	tweets	No doubt.... #smiling ...the best #medicine 😊😊😊
joy	tweets	Always hurting somewhere..... ALWAYS tired ....when are you lively ??
joy	tweets	Some vile piece of scum rejoicing in the fact that you have dead children is inhuman and to say it to me is worse still. I hope karma knocks
joy	tweets	Your attitude toward your struggles is equally as important as your actions to work through them. #optimism
joy	tweets	Your attitude toward your struggles is equally as important as your actions to work through them.
joy	tweets	Moment of levity n Charlotte dude on rollerblades goes skating through protesters. Better if he was wearing short shorts &amp; blowing a whistle
joy	tweets	Most of PROFITABLE FX MONEY MANAGER clients don't mind with high profit share we take, since they are very #happy with the returns they make
joy	tweets	@VBadawey Every day, we need to choose hope over fear, and diversity over division - Justin missed optimism, change, sunniness, love,
joy	tweets	@msdhoni #dhoni bcoz of is calmness nd match winning  finishers nd a proud #miltirian #dad#husband nd wonderful humanbeing nd his #smile
joy	tweets	@msdhoni #dhoni bcoz of is calmness nd match winning  finishers nd a proud #miltirian #dad#husband nd wonderful humanbeing nd his
joy	tweets	#PiersGough on thoroughly lively and imaginative developers—“Sager have always challenged us to do better and do better.” @IslingtonSq
joy	tweets	@sophtulig I personally prefer being happy.
joy	tweets	Finally have all my braces on and I can't stop smiling 😊😊😊😊😊
joy	tweets	@OutlanderHome if not filming, @TobiasMenzies smile! please. :)
joy	tweets	@BeastFireTimdog Same with gaming. Sites leaned PS2 during its heyday, leaned 360 most of last gen. This gen started vitriolic mostly by...
joy	tweets	It's hard to not cheer for team North America since US got taken out.
joy	tweets	I wanna go to blithe and read w the goats :((
joy	tweets	@URClassless I think that yawning actor died of a drug overdose. #glee
joy	tweets	@URClassless I think that yawning actor died of a drug overdose.
joy	tweets	I want my highlight to be so bright that if I ever get lost and someone is looking for me in the dark, they'll find me.
joy	tweets	If you want others to be #happy, practice #compassion. If you want to be happy, practice compassion.' Dalai Lama
joy	tweets	@menglishmusic Thank you for the most fantastic evening, it was a brilliant show, you are a truly #sparkling talent, night over too quickly.
joy	tweets	A lot of positives tonight. A clean sheet, Payet got some free kick practice, Zaza looked lively and made a lot of good runs
joy	tweets	Look at us, smiling in the photograph♪ You can see the secrets behind the fake smiles♪ (*・ω・*) (©FACT「a fact of life」)
joy	tweets	Impractical Jokers...practically genius!!!  @BQQuinn  #good4thesoul #ImpracticalJokers #bingewatching
joy	tweets	Impractical Jokers...practically genius!!!  @BQQuinn #laughter #good4thesoul #ImpracticalJokers #bingewatching
joy	tweets	#ilofitt is #laughter #happiness #spiritual #mental #physical #pizza. Just kidding about the pizza. Work hard in all facets for a fitlife!
joy	tweets	@Somong_MGMT We need 2 bust up the elites in DC, we need jobs 4 all, we need to clean up the blithe in inner Cities, rebuild housing...cont2
joy	tweets	@PixelMonsterYT @TeamGE0 @IZEDEPTIC @ztumtum @CrimtideTV @LtGrandslam @Slinkercorn Bahahahaha Dean looks hilarious and damn I got fat
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can literally even feel the exhilaration of victory.' -- George S. Patton 🐶
joy	tweets	@SowerAsh007 Great to hear. If there's one thing that makes you feel more like yourself, it;s some hearty chicken noodle soup, right?
joy	tweets	Woah. That overtime was exhilarating! Out of my seat and the hands on mackinnon wow #WCH2016
joy	tweets	The irony and hilarity of making Taylor Lautner super cold all the time is not lost on me. God I missed this show 😂#ScreamQueens
joy	tweets	Bet pawpaw is having a good time rejoicing up in heaven for his first birthday there!
joy	tweets	Watching the NY Phil webcast.  Something missing.  Reminds me of a blithe Journey's End I once saw on Bway.  Might just be the Gershwin.
joy	tweets	This night is sparkling don't you let it go,\nI'm wonder struck,\nBlushing on the way home.'
joy	tweets	Please stop your merriment. It is very annoying
joy	tweets	If you love singing, but don't have time for a weekly choir, come down to #KWOIR at @theartworksuk tomorrow! #Choir  #musiclondon
joy	tweets	If you love singing, but don't have time for a weekly choir, come down to #KWOIR at @theartworksuk tomorrow! #Choir #glee #musiclondon
joy	tweets	Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything
joy	tweets	Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything.
joy	tweets	Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything. #optimism
joy	tweets	Crossfit houston-la homefolks as for spry proprieties regimes: AJaFUE
joy	tweets	I understand now...if it's not pleasing to the ear...then it ain't what you want! I'm so so tired!!
joy	tweets	That was a lovely story to actually see Ruth and hubby who won the cashcow @sunriseon7.It was so funny when she left the phone #happy 😊
joy	tweets	Inglorious distinguished try auction so the joviality touching back side auction otherwise advance for order about: vAwyZAD
joy	tweets	you know it's beauty when the smile is her best curve
joy	tweets	Boys of Fall makes me miss cheering on Friday nights much sooooo bad #bulldogslways🐾
joy	tweets	@Babylonian I convinced my mom to watch it. Killgrave gave her literal nightmares, but watched last episode four times. #smile
joy	tweets	@Babylonian I convinced my mom to watch it. Killgrave gave her literal nightmares, but watched last episode four times.
joy	tweets	@BratzHead happy birthday to the most beautiful cheerful sister ever, llnp 💕❣🎉
joy	tweets	@JaredWyand Trump wasn't laughing anyway, his expression never changed, he was smiling because it was a moment of levity, nothing racist!
joy	tweets	@soboleskih Okay this is hilarious
joy	tweets	@homoaesthetics YESYESYES like jd is the closest cahracter that is similar to blaine!! the optimism and ability to crack tough characters
joy	tweets	- its lit having a class with you!!! Your such a great person and good at cheer!!
joy	tweets	@DayveeSutton BIG thank you for liking my little Pumpkin  :)  She's the smallest of my 4, but is very playful &amp; wakes me up most mornings.
joy	tweets	At the end of the day you gotta be #happy for you.
joy	tweets	Why would Enrique sub off busquet? #hilarious
joy	tweets	Why would Enrique sub off busquet?
joy	tweets	Vincent looking super lively boy... Hattrick perhaps lol
joy	tweets	@Nick_Offerman &amp; @MeganOMullally 's #Summerof69 show was raw sexuality and pure #mirth ! Thanks for the belly laughs and butt sex japes!
joy	tweets	.@marcorubio mentions his high school-aged daughters, 'should be a joyous occasion' when they go to college, not bring 'fear,' 'trepidation'
joy	tweets	My ukulele bag has fallen apart. 😐 WELLL AT LEAST my life hasn't yet!!
joy	tweets	My ukulele bag has fallen apart. 😐 WELLL AT LEAST my life hasn't yet!! #optimism
joy	tweets	Everyday I wake up, a different @SpursOfficial player signs a contract extension! Love it!! #future #is  #COYS
joy	tweets	Everyday I wake up, a different @SpursOfficial player signs a contract extension! Love it!! #future #is #bright #COYS
joy	tweets	i swear people dont wanna see me happy like they will try to do anything to fuck up what i got going
joy	tweets	#MeogysDailyVocabEnhancment Elation: quality or state of being elated; feeling or state of great joy or pride
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory. George S. Patton #quote #yeg
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory. George S. Patton\n#quote #motivation #entrepreneur
joy	tweets	@crazace76 it looks cool and animated well for pixel art !
joy	tweets	Tomorrow, is the FIRST DAY OF 🍂🍂FALL🍁🍁and I'm elated!!!!!
joy	tweets	#Appreciate what you have &amp; enjoy your life. \nUse your #smile 😃 to help others use theirs. ☺️
joy	tweets	@shawnstockman This would be hilarious, if it weren't so frighteningly on point. It's gone from a few bad apples to a national disgrace.
joy	tweets	I feel like one of my friends brought this freshmen in my class over to pre game earlier in the year bc she keeps smiling at me
joy	tweets	@JMRescue not brilliant lol! Hoping seeing my horse tomorrow will cheer me up 😄 #equestrianhour
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday shorty. Stay fine stay breezy stay wavy @daviistuart 😘
joy	tweets	@PhilRosenthal Perhaps I've missed it, are you doing another season of IHWPH???\nYou are so joyous and gleeful at the the prospect of eating!
joy	tweets	Having a blast playing games and hearing testimonies at Pastor Jeremy's house #fellowship #food  #praise #gospel #coffey1617
joy	tweets	Having a blast playing games and hearing testimonies at Pastor Jeremy's house #fellowship #food #laughter #praise #gospel #coffey1617
joy	tweets	You got some dick recently right, you're happy, you're not sick and you're smiling. Life is good' 😭😭😭
joy	tweets	Ive learnt that a #smile and good #morning goes a long way, and saying #thankyou goes even further.  #quote #retweet #inspire
joy	tweets	Better mood today! Bring me #teasing, #flirting, #xdressers, #laughter, and #roleplayers! Also #confessions and #secrets @underdeskloser
joy	tweets	@beingbrilliant @johnmurrays you're welcome. It's genuinely made me give my head a wobble and realise what's important in life.
joy	tweets	@mywrldsbl I can be your wolf if you want. Hihi~
joy	tweets	@mywrldsbl I can be your wolf if you want. Hihi~ #breezy
joy	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause of my razor wit &amp; sparkling personality
joy	tweets	It take so little to make a child's life joyful, why do we work so hard to make their lives hell? @MiddleEastEye Peace
joy	tweets	After soul searching, I'd like to announce that I've chosen @chrissyteigen &amp; @nicolerichie to be my adopted sisters due to their hilarity
joy	tweets	i animated a little thing i might post it tomorrow since itll be a Good Thursday.. nice...
joy	tweets	@KillerInASuit - now getting banned but will still lurk in corners and underneath the bed and sofa, much to Eyepatch's delight. Why is she -
joy	tweets	@ErinAndrews I ❤️you on DWTS You make my night every show! 😘 #hilarious
joy	tweets	@ErinAndrews I ❤️you on DWTS You make my night every show! 😘
joy	tweets	Latest on new optimism on keeping #Raiders in #Oakland, live right now on @KCBSNews: @NFL meets here w/Lott &amp; Schaaf to talk new stadium
joy	tweets	Epicurus~ The man least dependent upon the morrow goes to meet the morrow most cheerfully.
joy	tweets	everyone hates twice, and i kinda did too but they got bops i'm bumping rn to cheer up
joy	tweets	The bits that were cooked actual tasted ... no, ok, the cooked AND raw bits tasted awful. 5/5 hilarity, 1/5 taste, 0/5 safe to ingest
joy	tweets	@gothictana im a delight
joy	tweets	Get there deviant differently enigmatic bellboy in passage to correct thy ring up jaunty: IWLDpe
joy	tweets	@nadyaginsburg Thank-you for unfailingly bringing so much joy into my life, you incredibly talented maker of mirth.
joy	tweets	Try to find the good in the negative. The negative can turn out to be good.\n#anxietyrelief #optimism #openminded
joy	tweets	Pre-game nerves have settled in 😱 i'l be #cheering from home guys 🔴⚪️🙌🏻🏉 #AFLCatsSwans #ProudlySydney #goswans @sydneyswans @SwansSupport
joy	tweets	Big thanks to Brad Pitt who's trashy ways brought a modicum of levity to an otherwise lame week of political 💤.
joy	tweets	Win,lose or draw vs LFC, all football fans will rejoice as West Ham &amp; Chelsea fans beat the shit out of each other in a council house! #COYS
joy	tweets	I envy ice, at least if you give it warmth it melts #TaylorLautner #Twilight  #quote
joy	tweets	I envy ice, at least if you give it warmth it melts #TaylorLautner #Twilight #hilarious #quote
joy	tweets	Literally dying &amp; living at the same time as I catch up on @adrian_ver 's twitter. If you aren't following him your life is BASIC. #hilarity
joy	tweets	Literally dying &amp; living at the same time as I catch up on @adrian_ver 's twitter. If you aren't following him your life is BASIC.
joy	tweets	Her charm is liveliness but this is also her weakness.
joy	tweets	Want Darren to open the video so he can appreciate my hilarity
joy	tweets	Okay~ #deepbreathes ☺️ we can do this @sydneyswans 💪🏻🔴⚪️ #cheer #cheer &amp; see you on the other side peeps ❤️ #AFLCatsSwans #ProudlySydney
joy	tweets	Come to the @BullSkitComedy FUNdraiser this Fri. at 8pm @TheScottBlock. Because #pie + #face = #hilarity!
joy	tweets	Come to the @BullSkitComedy FUNdraiser this Fri. at 8pm @TheScottBlock. Because #pie + #face = !
joy	tweets	@FaultlessFacade &lt;she really said in response to what she perceived as a forced jovial tone. With that, she slid out of the jeep and onto&gt;
joy	tweets	And thus begins my 2 week holiday! 😏😏\n#holiday #cheering #ghastinoir #rest
joy	tweets	And thus begins my 2 week holiday! 😏😏\n #holiday  #ghastinoir #rest
joy	tweets	#brigetjonesbabys #brigetjonesbaby was the best film! #hilarious - so good - so funny!! 🙌
joy	tweets	@T_newhouse13 as granny would say I don't know how to chirp
joy	tweets	Mon Celtic, give us something to cheer - place is empty, soaked &amp; its my wee nephew's Birthday ffs, started well, now dropped off.
joy	tweets	@Girlandlurchers Yep, peeps on here always out to cheer others up! I'm fine, drooling at GBBO x
joy	tweets	@enews #breezy deserve it..
joy	tweets	@simmy_hanley @Schrise also a #delight
joy	tweets	@simmy_hanley @Schrise also a
joy	tweets	That was nearly aesthetically pleasing enough lol I need to do this on PS and not my phone
joy	tweets	@SomeonesAnIdiot @Sean10Lynagh  due to hearty lawsuit NASCAR will raise beer prices $0.07 to accommodate for losses.
joy	tweets	@veryeloise your gunna make me cry, I need a glee day
joy	tweets	is it bad that kurt is literally me..? #glee
joy	tweets	is it bad that kurt is literally me..?
joy	tweets	Whatever you decide to do make sure it makes you #happy.
joy	tweets	Whatever you decide to do make sure it makes you .
joy	tweets	Lea doing a mini set tour of glee my heart just cried tears of happiness and sadness
joy	tweets	light shining thru a clear sparkling stream of piss ,is a sight women will never know of(also tells tht system ure system is healthy)
joy	tweets	Treat joy and laughter as a form of worship and spiritual warfare!  #live #victory #worship
joy	tweets	Treat joy and laughter as a form of worship and spiritual warfare! #laughter #live #victory #worship
joy	tweets	@EmbitteredIcon *Sam grins against Steve's lips, murmuring his words with a playful tone* You want the shirt off? I sure i could accommodate
joy	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause    People are using this hashtag to brag about themselves.  I'm not interested in pleasing others, but in pleasing God.
joy	tweets	The boys rejoice as badger corner has been reclaimed for our first social of the year #cluboftheyear
joy	tweets	ari looks hilarious oh my g d this is too much
joy	tweets	The people that call in to POV on KX4 make my night. #hilarious
joy	tweets	The people that call in to POV on KX4 make my night.
joy	tweets	hilarity ensues
joy	tweets	5 person of renown cheerful expectation solutions-pleasure principle back: HsNHZMJSc
joy	tweets	Beings in my physical reality are my reflection, so me being always joyful extends to their lives.
joy	tweets	@XGames looks exhilarating! Looking forward to seeing 👍🏼
joy	tweets	Like I said ➡ there's plenty of cheddar in the cheese to go around! For everyone. ☺
joy	tweets	Like I said ➡ there's plenty of cheddar in the cheese to go around! For everyone. ☺ #smile
joy	tweets	Howling with laughter at “WELL DONE BEZZA!” #bakeoff #GBBO
joy	tweets	@yap_yip --an uncertainty. [Halsey teases, her lips curving into a jovial smirk.]
joy	tweets	@scottlocker220 Thank you for that, the notification came in the nick of time to cheer me up - have to re-tweet
joy	tweets	@715d1\nI bought the Steam port of Vice City, and to my delight Billie Jean is on the soundtrack!
joy	tweets	never #make a decision when you are .. #angry &gt;_&lt; .... and never make a #promis when you are #happy :) :*
joy	tweets	@glacierqxeen \n\n'Whoo, welcome~!' He greeted cheerfully.
joy	tweets	@thenthapple Haha I like the optimism cause I'm the same, but it doesn't make this situation any less mind boggling.
joy	tweets	@MrsTaraX @PlateGotAte YES! I am rejoicing
joy	tweets	Sometimes I get to sit back and be proud of myself for pleasing Him so well.
joy	tweets	@DJ_Musicologist #Disney's 1994 #animated #musical #film #TheLionKing was influenced by #WilliamShakespeare's #Hamlet. Songs by #EltonJohn.
joy	tweets	@JackHoward the Christmas episode genuinely had me in tears of laughter
joy	tweets	i made a squirrel friend today! i gave him the core of the plum i was eating. he seemed very happy.
joy	tweets	@julwhite chirp chirp! :)
joy	tweets	@kaijinboyfriend --while being animated much more recently technology-wise which makes for a very nice combination/look)
joy	tweets	@indermethil True. We were rejoicing the fact that we signed a quality young CB but we need one more at least. @MarcBartra ? mebbe :P
joy	tweets	@priny_baby happppy happppyyyyyy happppppyyyyy haaapppyyyy birthday best friend!! Love you lots 💖💖💖💖💖💖💖🎉🎊 #chapter22 #bdaygirl  #love
joy	tweets	@priny_baby happppy happppyyyyyy happppppyyyyy haaapppyyyy birthday best friend!! Love you lots 💖💖💖💖💖💖💖🎉🎊 #chapter22 #bdaygirl #happy #love
joy	tweets	@carras16 still bright ✨
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory. \n\n#MBMcLisse
joy	tweets	Sanatana Lopez is definitely me 😂 #glee
joy	tweets	Sanatana Lopez is definitely me 😂
joy	tweets	Maybe the entire Russian team will test positive for meldonium and the North Americans will get to replace them #optimism
joy	tweets	Maybe the entire Russian team will test positive for meldonium and the North Americans will get to replace them
joy	tweets	Cool to see when smart #CowboysTwitter folks chirp the same stuff you did during your review.  This is why I joined.
joy	tweets	Try to find the good in the negative. The negative can turn out to be good.\n #anxietyrelief  #openminded
joy	tweets	@andiymouse @jordana_brown @F1ghtCamp I'm sure he'll do just fine. He can always change to #beer or #cheer squad
joy	tweets	How do adults remain jovial amidst all the bad news?
joy	tweets	I'll find Myself smiling and even laughing at jokes that I don't even think are particularly funny, and I know it's because YOU love them!
joy	tweets	Just caught up with @RichardEGrant's wonderful new series on #EalingComedies. Infectious delight in every interview and film clip.
joy	tweets	So I survived spin....trying to get down the stairs was hilarious tho #jellylegs 😂😂
joy	tweets	Will be a lively evening at ot that one.
joy	tweets	Bridesmaid dresses: having carnal delight in addition to separates: RFpBAX
joy	tweets	@WuffinArts :c You have my most heartfelt condolences. I'm glad it passed with levity and love in it's heart.
joy	tweets	Root canal therapy has had a bad reputation in the past... but new technology has allowed more comfortable procedures!  #dental
joy	tweets	Root canal therapy has had a bad reputation in the past... but new technology has allowed more comfortable procedures! #smile #dental
joy	tweets	Well that draw is lively! #EFLCup
joy	tweets	laughter is such a powerful thing and everybody deserves to laugh, if u like shitty romcoms and get a giggle outta planet uranus, power to u
joy	tweets	I got so much fan's on here! Y'all and vixx keep me smiling ❤❤❤
joy	tweets	#LethalWeapon A suicidal Vet with PTSD... so FUCKING FUNNY.... let the hilarity begin...
joy	tweets	@xmaseveevil1. #MSM is rejoicing that they've fooled us with these body doubles for so long &amp; now her death is a secret. Just like Hawkings
joy	tweets	I don't fuck with people who don't smile back at me in corridors
joy	tweets	@lakeline I still find you pleasing.
joy	tweets	We have all been there, and wished we didn't. 25 #hilarious #AutoCorrect Fails
joy	tweets	Dehydrated, exhausted, stressed but still blessed.
joy	tweets	Dehydrated, exhausted, stressed but still blessed. #optimism
joy	tweets	Will WHU be old bill free by the time the game with Chelsea comes around? 😂 😂 😂\nThat will be lively to say the least\n#AFC
joy	tweets	when u havent learned to swim 🤔 but you keep working out so you're denser and less buoyant 😞 but swimming is scary 🤔 but also u cant swim 😞
joy	tweets	semores: let's get this. #mirth #SAW #keepthetradition 💜💛⚛🏵🍇🍋🌼🐤🐥👚😈😈👾🧀
joy	tweets	@Senpai_Vanilla This would be the height of hilarity, were it not for the fact that the adult swan is highly likely to attack.
joy	tweets	@NHLstoreNYC @TeamNA_WCH #NHLNYCSWEEPSTAKES having fun watching team North America and cheering team Canada!
joy	tweets	#Sports Top seed Johnson chases double delight at Tour Championship
joy	tweets	This meth documentary is exhilarating
joy	tweets	You head north and arrive at a breezy cave. It smells sweet. You glance at your watch; you're running 15 minutes late.
joy	tweets	@elevens_eggos_ 'El?' He turned around to her, smiling before hugging her gently.
joy	tweets	@selbsie yapyap! once upon a time, I was an avid fanfiction patron during my K-Pop heyday.
joy	tweets	To tell the truth and make someone cry is better than to tell a lie and make someone smile. #truth #lie #cry  #offalonehugots
joy	tweets	To tell the truth and make someone cry is better than to tell a lie and make someone smile. #truth #lie #cry #smile #offalonehugots
joy	tweets	Being #happy means letting go of the clinging and attachment to things in your life. #WednesdayWisdom #life
joy	tweets	With a very tired body and mind and sparkling teeth I say to all my followers, good night and if there is an apocalypse; good luck. #aspie
joy	tweets	I refuse to be a chirp chirp girl
joy	tweets	It was very hard to stifle my laughter after I overheard this comment. It really is amazing in the worst ways.
joy	tweets	While I was walking, a little boy in a red shirt(5/6 years of age) shouting from a distance of 3 meters, in a jovial manner saying...
joy	tweets	Asked one thing from our guys tonight and got it! #happy #proud #disappointed - THAT IS FOOTBALL #timetoclimbthetable
joy	tweets	Just got back from seeing @GaryDelaney in Burslem. AMAZING!! Face still hurts from laughing so much #hilarious
joy	tweets	Oh dear an evening of absolute hilarity I don't think I have laughed so much in a long time! 😂
joy	tweets	Been waiting all week for this game ❤️❤️❤️ #cheer #friday ❤️
joy	tweets	@gardiner_love : Thank you so much, Gloria! You're so sweet, and thoughtful! You just made my day more joyful! I love you too! 😊💕
joy	tweets	I feel so blessed to work with the family that I nanny for ❤️ nothing but love &amp; appreciation, makes me smile.
joy	tweets	Today I reached 1000 subscribers on YT!! , #goodday, #thankful
joy	tweets	@Singaholic121 Good morning, love! Happy first day of fall. Let's make some awesome #autumnmemories #annabailey #laughter #smile
joy	tweets	#BridgetJonesBaby is the best thing I've seen in ages! So funny, I've missed Bridget! #love  #TeamMark
joy	tweets	Just got back from seeing @GaryDelaney in Burslem. AMAZING!! Face still hurts from laughing so much
joy	tweets	@IndyMN I thought the holidays could not get any more cheerful, and then I met you. #TheNiceBot
joy	tweets	I'm just still . So happy .\nA blast
joy	tweets	It's meant to be!! #happy #happy
joy	tweets	💥⚖️Yeah‼️ PAUL‼️⚖️💥  #glorious #BB18
joy	tweets	My morning started off amazing!! Hopefully the whole day is going as i want it to go!\n #GreatDay
joy	tweets	😱 @cailamarsai you've had me 😂 😂 the whole time watching @black_ishABC after you've lost your #glasses! It was #hilarious! @mrbabyboogaloo
joy	tweets	@iamTinaDatta love you so much #smile 😊😊
joy	tweets	@WyoWiseGuy @LivingVertical however, REI did offer me the job today as well. Can't believe how exponentially freaking joyous I feel...!!!
joy	tweets	2 days until #GoPackGo and 23 days until #GoGipeGo..... I'm so excited! #smiling
joy	tweets	@TheMandyMoore You are beyond wonderful.  Your singing prowess is phenomenal but damn... I'm just elated to watch you act again. #ThisIsUs 珞
joy	tweets	@luckiiCHARM_ Luckii, I'm changing in so many ways bc of Him!! It's a scary but joyful feeling, making me so strong.
joy	tweets	@JoshNoneYaBiz I love parody accounts! Well done. Vote for #Trump. #lol #hilarious
joy	tweets	When you wake up from a dream laughing at something stupid, and that makes you laugh more #hilarious
joy	tweets	now that I have my future planned out, I feel so much happier #goals #life #happy #igotthis #yay
joy	tweets	Online now !!!:) all day come play with me !! I'm happy happy horny playful sweet sour;)
joy	tweets	@grahnort wonderful experience watching you yesterday at. @BBCLetItShine thankyou for the #laughter
joy	tweets	@itsyourgirl_Z happy birthday :) have a blessed day love from Toronto :) #bday
joy	tweets	@WSJNordics You make the world a more joyful place. #TheNiceBot
joy	tweets	Morning all! Of course it is sunny on this Monday morning to cheerfully welcome us back to work.:)
joy	tweets	@Singaholic121 Good morning, love! Happy first day of fall. Let's make some awesome #autumnmemories #annabailey
joy	tweets	It's the #FirstDayofFall and I'm so happy. Sipping my #PumpkinSpice flavored coffee and #smiling! Happy Fall everyone! #amwriting
joy	tweets	Retweeted GunnySmith93 (@Stephen21Smith):\n\nDays like today I am happy to be alive! #blessed #rejoice
joy	tweets	@ADenkyirah Happy birthday! Hope you have a wonderful day filled with lots of joy and laughter &lt;3 (despite tumblr being a jerk- once again)
joy	tweets	LOVE LOVE LOVE  #fun #relaxationiskey
joy	tweets	This is the day You've made, \n\nLet us rehoi rejoice and be glad with all that I am. \n\n😊💖\n\n#aja \nGood morning!!!!
joy	tweets	I #love to #laugh and share #laughter as way to share #joy
joy	tweets	second day on the job and i already got a 45 dollar tip from a dude whose was constantly twitching his eye LOLOLOL #cheering
joy	tweets	I'm such a fan of endless #laughter with #friends and enjoying #happiness together. #FridayFeeling #weekend
joy	tweets	the thought of you gets me through my day. the thought of your smile never fails at making me smile 💚
joy	tweets	Today I reached 1000 subscribers on YT!! #happy, #goodday, #thankful
joy	tweets	Getting my comedic relief w/ @SofiaVergara during season premiere of #ModernFamily. Just what a girl needs! #hilarious
joy	tweets	@palmtreesarah @WorthingTheatre had more fun than the funniest person in funsville..... Much hilarity as usual.... Thank you ❤️
joy	tweets	@shwood @mpforstein OMD you 2 are cracking me up! Thanks for the follow Brian. I need some levity to balance the cynicism I share w/Michael😀
joy	tweets	@DorH84607784 Oh FANTASTIC, I bet it was super exhilarating  🤗😍
joy	tweets	@ContourCosmetic well done ladies! A great award for an amazing team. A delight to present the award to you.
joy	tweets	Vals always smiling I love it #gbbo
joy	tweets	Had a great time at Skywalkers open gym tonight! Come our every Wednesday from 7-8 in Hillsboro and train with us! #opengym #cheer #tumbling
joy	tweets	I love how cheery and adoring @JackHoward gets every time he produces new content.
joy	tweets	Good morning joyful people. Choose happiness to have a great day today #morning #joyful #happiness #grandmercurejktkemayoran
joy	tweets	Retweeted GunnySmith93 (@Stephen21Smith):\n\nDays like today I am happy to be alive! #blessed
joy	tweets	Wishing a very Happy Birthday to our awesome dancer, Ruthann!!! We hope your day is magical! #bday  #eatcake
joy	tweets	Thank you @twitter for the balloons today. #smile #goodday #48
joy	tweets	Omg. You've got to watch the new series 'This is Us'.....wow. Best tv show I've seen in a long time.\n#tears #laughter #moretears
joy	tweets	Today is the first time any math professor let us live early before the class time !!! #15 min #feelsgood #happy #wednesday #
joy	tweets	Food that gets delivered 😍🙌🏻 #cheering #happy
joy	tweets	You know you're in love when all you can do is smile whenever you talk about how he is to someone.
joy	tweets	What a #lively #lovely #shower 😇 ..
joy	tweets	What a great training course, lots of photos, fun and laughter. Photo's will be up soon #Boostercourse #fun #laughter
joy	tweets	@EmmyMitchell_  hahahaha you're ridiculous!!! But thank you a joyous evening xx
joy	tweets	I am so happy I have come across @HilltopBindery notebooks! #handmade would love to talk to you! #musthave #want #need #happy #amazing 📖🖋
joy	tweets	second day on the job and i already got a 45 dollar tip from a dude whose was constantly twitching his eye LOLOLOL
joy	tweets	Made my night that @GordonReid91 Reid was included in tonight's hilarity. Some of those points were brilliant. Thanks @andy_murray
joy	tweets	By the way, I'm wearing the smile you gave me today. \n #you #me
joy	tweets	@airvistara as always it was indeed a wonderful experience flying with you guys today #bestinbusiness #delight #happyme
joy	tweets	@alpuzz Ah, but once I got it to work, there was much rejoicing! Lol thanks will get it to do taht now.
joy	tweets	Getting my comedic relief w/ @SofiaVergara during season premiere of #ModernFamily. Just what a girl needs!
joy	tweets	@MrHenvin Thank you, happy birthday to you as well!
joy	tweets	I really love the customer service @LifeProof they're always so nice, helpful and cheerful !
joy	tweets	@ChrisBooker @ThePerezHilton On PHP54  and though the Kardashian stuff goes over my head, you're both hilarious, like gleeful little boys 😂😂
joy	tweets	@TheSandraGal Glad to see that you're having fun in the sun. Water sports are always fun, challenging, and exhilarating. #happiness #beauty
joy	tweets	May your day be filled with #peace#love n #laughter .Have a very nice day full of #Success #Jummah Mubarak😇 , good morning☕ @WaseemBadami
joy	tweets	2 days until #GoPackGo and 23 days until #GoGipeGo..... I'm so excited!
joy	tweets	It's funny that everyone came in my life as they like how far I'm cheerful and self confident could make me 3abla kaml fg2a kda 😂😂😂
joy	tweets	Happy Birthday @Brooke56_56  #cheerchick #jeep #jeepgirl #IDriveAJeep #jeepjeep #Cheer
joy	tweets	TheNiceBot: melbjs ;) Here is a smile and a wink from across the web. #TheNiceBot
joy	tweets	A #smile brightens your day and the day of everyone around you, so remember to #smile, it's #free. :-)
joy	tweets	I'm watching joyful noise for 100000000 time cuz I love this movie and @KekePalmer
joy	tweets	Indian time it's already ur birthday @akshaymarwah22. Have a stupendous birthday. Wish you more success, laughter and lots of love. Hugs. x
joy	tweets	now that I have my future planned out, I feel so much happier #goals #life  #igotthis #yay
joy	tweets	#BridgetJonesBaby is the best thing I've seen in ages! So funny, I've missed Bridget! #love #hilarious #TeamMark
joy	tweets	Had a great time at Skywalkers open gym tonight! Come our every Wednesday from 7-8 in Hillsboro and train with us! #opengym  #tumbling
joy	tweets	@jadelalaa_ hahaha and u da best bro ever luv u hearty hearts
joy	tweets	@morgannbroom yes ❤️❤️ &amp; cheering homecoming game!
joy	tweets	I would like to congratulate the people of Saudi Arabia a happy and a joyous national day. May you all have a great time! #اليوم_الوطني
joy	tweets	@JackAndJack I'm so lively for listen💗😀
joy	tweets	@Nick_Offerman I'll be there!! Can't wait for all the !
joy	tweets	@TheMandyMoore You are beyond wonderful.  Your singing prowess is phenomenal but damn... I'm just elated to watch you act again. #ThisIsUs 🤗
joy	tweets	@ahtareen1 @ReginalAleman @krelifa @zamansj64 @AwiexaB Very pleasing ty!
joy	tweets	@Zerfash — can't wait.' She said cheerfully and grinned.
joy	tweets	@madisenrb she's so sweet &amp; playful 😍
joy	tweets	Good morning, Trondheim! #optimism #productivity ⛅️❤️🇳🇴🏢💻🖥🏋🏻💪🏼📺🍿
joy	tweets	Thank you disney themed episode for letting me discover how amazing the @BlackishWriters are! #hilarious
joy	tweets	having a pet store worker ask 'do you want to play with them?' is the most exhilarating feeling
joy	tweets	@yoshi_lucky Good morning.Let's start with a smile!\nLet's enjoy life in a cheerful way!\nDon't worry be happy!
joy	tweets	Currently listening to @ScottFoxonair &amp; @KatCallaghan @Z1035Toronto podcasts!! Can you guys please move to #yvr ? #hilarious #missyou
joy	tweets	@Jen_Lee @mostlymartha @edotwoods we just found thin mints in a freezer clean. i couldn't be more elated.
joy	tweets	@Myahrissavietta I'm cheery now 😘😉
joy	tweets	Probably the best OT period I've ever seen. Absolutely exhilarating. #WCH2016 #TeamNA
joy	tweets	Rewatching 'Raising Hope' (with hubs this time) and totally forgot how hilarious it is 😂 #HereWeGo
joy	tweets	@airvistara as always it was indeed a wonderful experience flying with you guys today #bestinbusiness  #happyme
joy	tweets	@followAdamA looking back on recent tweets seen, this one right here is great #perfect #hilarious #Speechless #deal
joy	tweets	I found #marmite in Australia. `:) #happy
joy	tweets	@D_McMenemy It'll be easy to spot the parade of tiny weans in expensive jammies. Really is hilarious!
joy	tweets	Wishing a very Happy Birthday to our awesome dancer, Ruthann!!! We hope your day is magical! #bday #happy #eatcake
joy	tweets	I love seeing happy women, that glow is something real.
joy	tweets	Aw there's a young fox outside on the grass just jumping around all playful and having a little stretch 🙈 soo cute 🐺
joy	tweets	North America vs Sweden is the most exhilarating hockey I've ever watched 😅 wow , mackinonns mitts are silky #TeamNA #WCH2016
joy	tweets	Just had #efficient #great #smiling service @AppleBelgique store. Impressive team of geniuses ready to redefine what customer service is!
joy	tweets	By the way, I'm wearing the smile you gave me today. \n#you #me #smile
joy	tweets	Use your smile to change the world. Don't let the world change your smile.' #quote #actorslife  #love #hardworkpaysoff #fun
joy	tweets	You're so cute @katienolan #truelove #hilarious @GarbageTime #beautiful &amp; #graceful never heard explicits spoken with such elegance. #Mingo
joy	tweets	Always be #cheerful, #smile often make others happy, care for others, help who feel helpless and #vulnerable. Life feels good #leadership
joy	tweets	What a great training course, lots of photos, fun and laughter. Photo's will be up soon #Boostercourse #fun
joy	tweets	LOVE LOVE LOVE #smile #fun #relaxationiskey
joy	tweets	@Matalan when the lady in Xmas dept answers your call as 'hello mrs Xmas' yep true story #winning #Xmas #cheer #goodcustomerservice ❤ 📞👍😊
joy	tweets	Happy birthday @iRidhiDogra keep smiling always.Wishing you a wonderful year ahead mam
joy	tweets	Good night, Twitter world! Wish you all good sleep / productive jovial days! :)
joy	tweets	@RobRiggle @joelmchale @NFLonFOX I still can't get jimmy garoppolo out of my head and it's been almost 3 weeks. Thanks a lot! #hilarious
joy	tweets	My friend just messaged me 'ugh I'm so hungry I can't wait for breakfast' #socialmedia #WineWednesday #hilarious #funny #laughing #happy
joy	tweets	Thank you disney themed episode for letting me discover how amazing the @BlackishWriters are!
joy	tweets	@stackee Charlie attempted to suffocate me with a cushion for cheering so much at the great news 😂😂
joy	tweets	@clonmacart I'm beaming with glee.
joy	tweets	Smile at people and see what happens.  I think you'll be surprised #smile more #surprisepeople #influenceinternational
joy	tweets	Something about these cool, breezy fall days.. 😍🍂🌾🍁
joy	tweets	Food that gets delivered 😍🙌🏻
joy	tweets	@ArtyBagger With or without cake seeing your wee cheery face is always a joy xx
joy	tweets	I am a simple human being who just really loves @aliciakeys like truly, madly, deeply rejoicing in her existence, class and queendom
joy	tweets	I just really enjoy bright colors, like the colors you would see downtown Miami
joy	tweets	Thanks for making our Mass with Fr. Vallely respectful, meaningful, and joyful @ACSSCrusader @AssumptionHCDSB ! #SeeWithEyesOfMercy
joy	tweets	Good morning joyful people. Choose happiness to have a great day today #morning  #happiness #grandmercurejktkemayoran
joy	tweets	@LiamJamesVernon love the optimism!! BLUE MOON!
joy	tweets	#ContentwiththeLordsPortion:O satisfy us early with thy #mercy;that we may #rejoice &amp; be glad all our days.#Ps 90:14 #gladness #joy #delight
joy	tweets	@RealestCastiel just sitting close to him for an extended period of time was exhilarating because he's so beautiful and lively lol
joy	tweets	TheNiceBot: WSJNordics You make the world a more joyful place. #TheNiceBot #الخفجي
joy	tweets	@PriiiincesssE thanks for distracting me from my paper to watch this hilarious video 😂
joy	tweets	@grahnort wonderful experience watching you yesterday at. @BBCLetItShine thankyou for the
joy	tweets	@LindseySanford @simplymeasured this makes me giggle with glee!
joy	tweets	Live simply. Dream big. Be grateful. Give love. Laugh lots. - Unknown #quote #inspiration #happy
joy	tweets	Be #happy. Be #bright. Be YOU :) #identity #TimelessTips #friendship #family #forest #water #family #TrueLove #God #RoadSoFar #you #LifeTrip
joy	tweets	When you wake up from a dream laughing at something stupid, and that makes you laugh more
joy	tweets	@JoshNoneYaBiz I love parody accounts! Well done. Vote for #Trump. #lol
joy	tweets	Zephaniah 3:17 He surely is rejoicing over us with singing...such romance and so needed today!!
joy	tweets	@imDevinLopez happy bday bro! 👌🏻
joy	tweets	@itsyourgirl_Z happy birthday :) have a blessed day love from Toronto :) #bday #smile
joy	tweets	Mate the thing I get excited about in my profession are mad. A client said she opened her bowels, I'm rejoicing
joy	tweets	Riggs dumb ass hell lolol #hilarious #LethalWeapon
joy	tweets	“Be #positive, #cheerful, #grateful and expectant.” @NightingaleEarl  #Success #Leadership
joy	tweets	We are elated to have @lisavol, Sid Espinosa and @dyuliharris, ready to inspire innovative students!!  @knightfdn @MicrosoftSV @JessicaWeare
joy	tweets	@Norn_IronMaiden @forest_fr1ends It's hilarious
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it.\n #funny #pun #punny #lol
joy	tweets	#ukedchat A4 Just go outside (or to the gym hall) and play! \n #education  #learning
joy	tweets	And by the way, Takeru's eyes sparkling while eating was like the cutest thing ever.
joy	tweets	#ContentwiththeLordsPortion:O satisfy us early with thy #mercy;that we may #rejoice &amp; be glad all our days.#Ps 90:14 #gladness #joy
joy	tweets	@JamieNicks_ it makes complete sense and i'm elated to hear this :]
joy	tweets	@liamch88 yeah! :) playing well
joy	tweets	@Olajide_Shutti lmaoo. It will be a joyful day.
joy	tweets	Thank you @RachelPlatten for teaching me how to live again. It's been so long since &amp; this ride is about to be exhilarating. I just know it
joy	tweets	Day 3 of #harvest16 - listening to the sound of the chopper working it's way closer to home at @mountaindairy makes me #happy. #farm365
joy	tweets	@dressenn @amerson6562 @RosaTrunk @iam_spl_ @michaelk487 @Silau25 \nGA🙋 Have a joyful day
joy	tweets	Yo this 3 v 3 overtime in hockey got me sweaty damn this ish exhilarating
joy	tweets	What an exhilarating last minute of overtime #WCH2016
joy	tweets	Day 9 and I am elated because I'm taking PTO tomorrow so I'm doneeeee. But:
joy	tweets	Ooh #hygge, candles, jasmine tea &amp; #GBBO
joy	tweets	.@Travelanswerman: When U ride on a pile of salt life is extra sweet! Always salty always savory! #surfing #aloha #smiling …
joy	tweets	It's a beautiful day today. Cloudy but sunny and breezy.
joy	tweets	@jimadair3 Guitar shop owners everywhere rejoice
joy	tweets	A joyous first webiversary/web mitzvah to Smithsonian's @WeiPoints!! @brianwolly @jackie_mansky @bethpylieberman @bilbo @mazeltov
joy	tweets	@lennyabrahamson May I send you a copy of #HeroTheGreyhound? Either e-book or real paper one! A boy and a greyhound #smiles #tears #laughter
joy	tweets	Look forward to the detours because they bring delightful surprises. #lifequote
joy	tweets	@followAdamA looking back on recent tweets seen, this one right here is great #perfect  #Speechless #deal
joy	tweets	Getting cable hooked up in new place just in time for @NBCChicagoPD and @NBCChicagoMed premiers is like God smiling down on me. #OneChicago
joy	tweets	@mediacrooks @thenewshour @LodhiMaleeha @ndtv @IndiaToday This is hilarious ! Not a Freudian slip, eh !
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @izzybuzy365  #musically
joy	tweets	My siblings look all gangster &amp; I look all cheery 😅😂
joy	tweets	@sidviyer uff!! Look at your Arsenal fans cheering for every goal against United. haha
joy	tweets	@HytheHighborne -Sylvia was elated to receive kisses from the little prince, her bright smile clear as she glanced to Garrett and Elyse- --
joy	tweets	There is something v satisfying about  opening an old 'to do'.doc file and being able to check off all the things you have done #smiling
joy	tweets	If you have the ability to make someone happy or to make someone #smile, do it! The world needs more of that right about now. #CreateLove ☺️
joy	tweets	@BlueJayHunter I'm fine on the near future, I just want to go to bed super elated and put together audio compilations of great moments.
joy	tweets	Time to go hit up the library - I have a lovely PILE of book reservations to collect this morning... #glee #books #reading
joy	tweets	if you ain't watching Sugarboy on Hulu, then you ain't shit. #hilarious hahaha
joy	tweets	@TampaBayRay I cried with laughter.
joy	tweets	I'm due for a big change! I've prayed on it, I think I deserve it #positivity #optimism
joy	tweets	@R1Breakfast Totes had to re-listen to the endless hilarity that was Tom Odell's 'raaar' this morning 😂😂😂 @grimmers @fionaradio @TinaDaheley
joy	tweets	It's finally raining in Ashland, Oregon. We've been parched all summer &amp; fall. The plants &amp; people are rejoicing!
joy	tweets	tfw you're en-route to your future :) !! @HUCJIR i'm coming for ya! #openhouse #futurecantor #exhilarating #NYCletsgo
joy	tweets	@reinervshunter you got this #staystrong #smile #yourebeautiful
joy	tweets	It's Thursday which means it's Grey's day #TGIT
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @brooke_bridges  #musically
joy	tweets	The current run of superman continues to be a delight! You can feel the love poured into it by everone on the creative team #superman
joy	tweets	I am always ready to #smile.
joy	tweets	Riding at night has got to be one of the most exhilarating, refreshing things I have ever done.
joy	tweets	Lmboo , using my nephew for meme #hilarious
joy	tweets	@sszmata @PKessel81 Blew up the Internet with his chirp. Lol. Love it.
joy	tweets	Thinking about trying some comedy on youtube. Always been fond of it. Time to nut up. #laughter #comedy #maybeoneday #hopefullyfunny #LOL
joy	tweets	I like talking to someone who makes me laugh, laughter is the best medicine
joy	tweets	Lmboo , using my nephew for meme
joy	tweets	Loved @Bethenny independence msg on @WendyWilliams, be happy &amp; fulfilled within yourself &amp; positivity will flock to you #happy #independent
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @katyy.mae #lively #musically
joy	tweets	#personaldevelopment\n\nToday is a gift, that's why it's called the present... #happiness #optimism #entrepreneur #personaldevelopment …
joy	tweets	Bunk ur class📚 at least once in your life time cuz later when u look back good marks will not make u happy but memories😊 will'    -APJ
joy	tweets	@Nikhilv95 @LydiajaneF I wish, I really, truly wish, that I had just a modicum of your banter. #hilarious
joy	tweets	Am I watching #BacheloretteAU or Zoolander ? #hilarious #samvrhys
joy	tweets	@scdesc Yup. And Val basically ignoring the recipe. I'm just done. I keep bursting into laughter x
joy	tweets	Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything  #optimism
joy	tweets	the fact everyone is selling their kanye tickets or are buying them for less than $50 is unbelievably hilarious to me
joy	tweets	@bradshawjp Sweet!
joy	tweets	He showed us a really lively performance, with a lot of different emotions, not just sticking to one. And that's freaking awesome.
joy	tweets	@Nick_Offerman I'll be there!! Can't wait for all the #mirth!
joy	tweets	Icon is pochama.\nHe is very cute and easily elated.
joy	tweets	@crimpoop my adorable and cheerful daughter\nAlways pouring positivity green goo on me\ndare hurt her and you'll see hell //growls\n\n#PandaBot
joy	tweets	Remember: The life you have is a blessing for #God. Make it a joyful experience regardless of the odds. GBY
joy	tweets	@chrisrock brings back great memories of hilarity on #SATURDAYNIGHTLIVE
joy	tweets	The neighbor dancing in the Clayton Homes commercial is me. #hilarious
joy	tweets	All in all a pleasing night down The Lane .  .  .  On to the next round &amp; bring on Liverpool at Anfield! #COYS
joy	tweets	@AlbertBreer @jetswhispers Be sure and switch it over to cable news - cheery
joy	tweets	If you simply act out of kindness, strength, and optimism, today will be the best day ever! @Tarleton_KINE @DrKaylaPeak @jssimpson9
joy	tweets	@beingbrilliant @johnmurrays you're welcome. It's genuinely made me give my head a wobble and realise what's important in life.  #smiling
joy	tweets	@liamch88 yeah! :) playing well #optimism
joy	tweets	Why have I only just started watching glee this week I am now addicted 🙄 #glee #GLEEK
joy	tweets	@RealKyper @NHL watching the jubilant scrum at the end of the day and remembering they're all still kids! #priceless
joy	tweets	chirp chirp! what a beautiful white and red bird! 🐦
joy	tweets	15 minutes of yoga to your breakfast routine will change your day #preparation #sunriseyoga #bodyawareness #health #yoga #smile #stretch
joy	tweets	@sydneyswans #cheer #cheer the #red and #white we are now off to #grand final to #win the #fight. Thanks @JetstarAirways
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it.\n #funny #pun #lol  #punny
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @iamjustinburke #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@deadlyjokester *she let out a playful gasp and slowly wrapped her arms around his neck, kissing him back*
joy	tweets	The T.I / Shawty Lo beef is one of the more underrated ones in hip-hop history. Chock-full of wit, bravado and hilarity.
joy	tweets	Just popped a half bottle of 2014 @Bellawines #sparkling #gamaynoir from Westbank. Evenin', folks! \n#bcwinechat
joy	tweets	Omg I'm outside making beats with garageband and some little birds  decided to chirp along （≧∇≦）
joy	tweets	Go follow me on Musically @budderlordk1ng I am making a lively. Come and join BFFing and Following ;) See you there!
joy	tweets	@adamrodricks I like your optimism!
joy	tweets	Ryan Gosling and Eva Mendes finally  ; B joyful an funny/dont boss/dont argue/do everything with kids/go on mini car trips/ focus on love
joy	tweets	God just replaced my sadness with laughter, can't go the whole day sad ...
joy	tweets	A hearty welcome to those who followed me.
joy	tweets	In ever use to like smiling until I realized how good my teeth look ... Witout the braces
joy	tweets	@saraandgreg @Airbnb Another happy customer.  #secreteyes
joy	tweets	I just heard the most incredibly transcendent song ever &amp; now I feel high &amp; fucked up yet joyful &amp; I will never be the same
joy	tweets	Elinor,' she laughed so little known, all over every body at the brilliant cheerfulness of sweetmeats and a fashion.
joy	tweets	Only Geo is capable of cheering me up❤️❤️❤️
joy	tweets	@MericanMainer AWW. I had a Maine Coon when I was little named Ted Eddy the Wonder Cat. They're such good cats! Very playful and sweet
joy	tweets	Make someone happy ^_^
joy	tweets	What if.... the Metro LRT went over the Walterdale?!?! 😂 #yeg
joy	tweets	Go follow #beautiful #Snowgang ♥@Amynicolehill12 ♥ #Princess #fitness #bodyposi #haircut #smile #Whitegirlwednesday
joy	tweets	felt a bit shit getting a very high blood sugar then i remembered it's my first one above 15 this week which is incredible for me! #happy
joy	tweets	@TheeCurrentYear @Sargon_of_Akkad this is too much hilarity for one day
joy	tweets	Being a veteran just totally got me out of a ticket. I'm elated right now, close call.
joy	tweets	*violently screams at the four winds* WE AINT EVER GETTING OLDER *cute jovial rhythm starts* *moves hips along and waves arms in the air*
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it. \n #funny #pun #punny #lol
joy	tweets	There is something v satisfying about  opening an old 'to do'.doc file and being able to check off all the things you have done
joy	tweets	Rojo is so bad it's hilarious.
joy	tweets	I'm due for a big change! I've prayed on it, I think I deserve it #positivity
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @kaylaaa_sartorious #lively #musically
joy	tweets	.@Harry_Styles I hope you never go a day without something to make you smile. You deserve all good things. Please follow me?\n❤️💛💚💙💜\n311,553
joy	tweets	@_stfukohle it's ok champ you'll make it I'm cheering you on from a far
joy	tweets	Rojo is hilarious
joy	tweets	I'm so playful. lol I need somebody that'll joke with me all day long cause ill never get tired of it.
joy	tweets	@LFScott57 Miss Cookie sends her thanks! She's not as spry as she used to be - like me! She doesn't have the adventures the young pups do!
joy	tweets	It's better to be wetter than it is dry' - @RLevin91 certainly found that hilarious #GBBO
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it.\n #funny #pun #punny  #lol
joy	tweets	Ooh #hygge, candles, jasmine tea &amp; #GBBO #happy
joy	tweets	@my2k aaa Cam animated that, so proud of our boy
joy	tweets	@safaridjh but it's so aesthetically pleasing omg
joy	tweets	#Followback Quote_Soup: Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything.
joy	tweets	Peter is aesthetically pleasing to look at
joy	tweets	Loved @Bethenny independence msg on @WendyWilliams, be happy &amp; fulfilled within yourself &amp; positivity will flock to you  #independent
joy	tweets	I thought I got mad for anything but my bf gets mad over any little thing lmfao shit be hilarious
joy	tweets	@KWAYNTjoia it's exhilarating
joy	tweets	So happy my next class is canceled bc..im od tired 😭
joy	tweets	Optimism leads to success. - Bill Kerr @Coach__Kerr #success  #goals
joy	tweets	It's meant to be!!
joy	tweets	#smile is the #respect we give everyone.
joy	tweets	Not untill today has anyone ever said to me they remember what I had on over 7 years ago when they met me n liked me since #cutealert #happy
joy	tweets	The object of literature is to make man a wiser and happier being. The poet makes us happy because he tells us how we may become so.
joy	tweets	Watching Avatar and wondering why I took so long to watch this *collapses in a joyous heap*
joy	tweets	@DuncM1981 @pmallon72 At the risk of being blocked I thought that video from the wake was hilarious.
joy	tweets	I want the smoky clouds of laughter to swim about you forever more..
joy	tweets	I'm a cheery ghost.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @elise_awsome_11 #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @footballrocks123456 #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @maisiev  #musically
joy	tweets	@AJStylesOrg I know they have you a scripted ego maniac but, I was so elated to hear that you are a devout Christian like myself. Phenomanal
joy	tweets	@alyankovic I really wish I could attend the show at RCMH. I'm there in spirit, cheering you and the dudes on! :)
joy	tweets	@Dubai92 try asking for a cheeseburger with only onion &amp; mustard at any #McDonalds #hilarious
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory. #FocusX10 #motivation #motivationalquotes #quoteoftheday
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @flydudern  #musically
joy	tweets	You know what's great about #GBBO ? Contestants helping each other, cheering each other on. So important.
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory.
joy	tweets	@kymwhitley hello Miss Lady I'm sure today brings you happiness and laughter use your voice also to make us laugh  god knows we need it
joy	tweets	Thank you @twitter for the balloons today.  #goodday #48
joy	tweets	@LoisJoanneLane Wagging his tail at the praise, he paused, tilting his head as she took the frisbee from him, letting out a playful -
joy	tweets	Kayaking is merriment together with sevylor inflatable kayaks: eYGgJxMl
joy	tweets	Knowing how to cook is invaluable, what's even better is that even in a 400 sq ft place, I have wide and hearty homestyle egg noodles.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @footballrocks123456  #musically
joy	tweets	Do what makes you successful and #happy now and forever
joy	tweets	I love Mary's undying optimism. You could present her with dog shite and she'd find something good to say. #GBBO
joy	tweets	Use your smile to change the world. Don't let the world change your smile.' #quote #actorslife #smile #love #hardworkpaysoff #fun
joy	tweets	#smile every morning to a positive head start with your #clients relations
joy	tweets	@MoAmali @awosss @Arsenalman2011 listen I dn't subscribe to this team coq Team xhaka stuff. I like all our players. Depth has me elated
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @hannah..mccloud #lively #musically
joy	tweets	And the weather so breezy, man why can't life always be this easy
joy	tweets	Of cheerfulness, or a good temper - the more it is spent, the more of it remains.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @mrgummyking #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @rosannahill #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Rec'd call 2day from Haitian church we started in Florida some 15yrs ago. Preparing to acquire their own bldg. Wanted me to know. #rejoicing
joy	tweets	There's a specific joyous 20 song title engiybhekayo, yasezayoni. Need it for le mood
joy	tweets	promise of restoration to the nation of israel...'everywhere you look blessing '..barns/wine overflow.Everything beautiful  #do_u_see
joy	tweets	Look forward to the detours because they bring delightful surprises. #lifequote #delight
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @paulzimmer #lively #musically
joy	tweets	talk about a mood pickup i went from depressed to elated so fast
joy	tweets	Finn singing 'Can't Fight This Feeling' in the shower and Will spying on him is one of the best scenes on any show.
joy	tweets	@NHLstoreNYC I'm cheering for @TeamNA_WCH and @TeamEUR_WCH #NHLNYCSweepstakes
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @evanhufferd #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@bradshawjp Sweet! #optimism
joy	tweets	Finn singing 'Can't Fight This Feeling' in the shower and Will spying on him is one of the best scenes on any show. #glee
joy	tweets	tfw you're en-route to your future :) !! @HUCJIR i'm coming for ya! #openhouse #futurecantor  #NYCletsgo
joy	tweets	It's Thursday which means it's Grey's day #TGIT #rejoice
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @kana_blender  #musically
joy	tweets	@ofc_ALDUBQC Glad you gained some cheery vibes just by looking at our Happy Meal! 😊
joy	tweets	I found #marmite in Australia. `:)
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @huntermcaseyy  #musically
joy	tweets	@5ftanomaly aside from that i'm all about pleasing the individual that i'm involved with, my pleasure comes from their pleasure.
joy	tweets	mustache_harbor: TiburonChamber plus a hearty pour of #yachtrock by #mustacheharbor !
joy	tweets	@jaime_scurr: any team in the world would be totally elated to get to have you on it XD
joy	tweets	Tonight my top delight was a Skein of Geese flying about 1 foot above me as I swam in #Windermere. Breeze dropped &amp; it became like glass.
joy	tweets	— to reveal a broad smile. \n\n'Yeah, it's nice.' \n\nPursing his lips, he stifled his joyous expression in order —\n\n[@AVIATAUBE].
joy	tweets	the Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace. Numbers 6:26 #truth #trust #promise #calm #justice #great #mighty #protected #delight
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @its.finfin #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @iamjustinburke  #musically
joy	tweets	@Rbrutti what a #happy looking #couple !
joy	tweets	Punchline king is back! @Paedeezy 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥💯💯💯 #bright city lights
joy	tweets	@lawson__lynch my kinda girl pleasing the dick right😍😏
joy	tweets	Catering channel's at the height technics hearty enjoyment symptomatize: vrlfEyrN
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @maisiev #lively #musically
joy	tweets	her fingers slide along your thighs, caressing the skin before she's leaning down, down, down and the first lick is teasing n playful.
joy	tweets	@doctorofinfo I was just introducing a little levity to the convo. Yep!
joy	tweets	@INCIndia Oh please! INC talking about looting! I'm not saying #BJP is pure but this is such a #hilarious #irony! @BJP4India is def better!
joy	tweets	For a moment I found myself smiling
joy	tweets	@globemartyk 'drunken patroons' make this whole situation much more jovial though.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @flydudern #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@PersephoneOD Her cheerful voice echoed through the grand, familiar home, a smile blossoming on my rosy brims, 'Mom.' I reciprocated the --
joy	tweets	Just watched Django Unchained, Other people may frown, but I titter in delight! 2/5
joy	tweets	My future must be bright af.
joy	tweets	She gave a playful wink, taking the goggles off her head, swinging them around her finger. 'I would never~' @VerminEngineer
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @elise_awsome_11  #musically
joy	tweets	Live simply. Dream big. Be grateful. Give love. Laugh lots. - Unknown #quote #inspiration
joy	tweets	On the bright side, my music theory teacher just pocket dabbed and said, 'I know what's hip.' And walked away 😂😭
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @paulzimmer  #musically
joy	tweets	@yoursecretsub1 Trust me dear, if you want to make anything invisible, hang a wet paint on it, and hilarity will ensue.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @swagrman_fan  #musically
joy	tweets	Vacation wise, Egypt offers great places, amazing scenery, bright skies and good weather at a very good and affordable price for students.
joy	tweets	Gotta hit up breezy every day to make sure he's breaking in my boots. First class friend right there
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @kaylaaa_sartorious  #musically
joy	tweets	15 minutes of yoga to your breakfast routine will change your day #preparation #sunriseyoga #bodyawareness #health #yoga  #stretch
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @jaredhorgan  #musically
joy	tweets	Quote_Soup: Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything. #optimism
joy	tweets	Every single problem we ever face can be solved with a nice blend patience and optimism
joy	tweets	Transitioning to a new job is hard when you have nothing but joyful memories of the previous one. Thanks @LifeTeen for changing my life! ❤️
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges, So that you may feel the exhilaration of victory.\n\nTOMIHO IpaglabanMo TapingDay2
joy	tweets	@BattleSmitten \n\nother begin telling a 'story' he realized that she was making an attempt at cheering him up. It was sweet of her and so ➤
joy	tweets	Time to go hit up the library - I have a lovely PILE of book reservations to collect this morning...  #books #reading
joy	tweets	Not untill today has anyone ever said to me they remember what I had on over 7 years ago when they met me n liked me since #cutealert
joy	tweets	It is no coincidence that Lacan recorded infants' jubilant reactions to their mirror images in the noise.
joy	tweets	Be happy. Be who you want to be. If others don't like it, then let them be. Happiness is a choice. Life isn't about pleasing everybody....
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory!!
joy	tweets	Another joyful encounter in Tribez &amp; Castlez! I just met Mouchole, Ogre Cook! Do you want to know who that is? Download the game and find...
joy	tweets	@bodwell_james did it not just enliven your soul
joy	tweets	A 'non-permissive environment' is also called a 'battleground' - #MilSpeak #hilarious
joy	tweets	@samvirwin fancy! I have some of those and I have never put them up, I should do that. Also, I vote jaunty angles then no one will judge
joy	tweets	@sportinglifecan I keep a down vest or sweater in my pack year round! Helps on chilly mornings or breezy mountain tops! #mysportinglife
joy	tweets	@BertGatti not had much to cheer about you see 😜😂😂
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @haythatjamile8  #musically
joy	tweets	It's not that the man did not know how to juggle, he just didn't have the balls to do it. \n#funny #pun #punny #lol #hilarious
joy	tweets	@kevinmenzel annual reminder that i don't care and will cheerfully eat anything so labeled
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @huntermcaseyy #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@gypsydragoness wrinkling up. 'Well now, looks here like your name starts with the letter G, eh?' The man smiled up and gave a hearty +
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @izzybuzy365 #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@__PeterPanda yes bro it's actually breezy
joy	tweets	- the joyous occasion of laughing at the ostentatious display of disrespect. Bruce just scoffed at the entire scene. This wasn't Batman’s -
joy	tweets	@RobRiggle @joelmchale @NFLonFOX I still can't get jimmy garoppolo out of my head and it's been almost 3 weeks. Thanks a lot!
joy	tweets	@ardit_haliti I'm so gutted. I loved her cheery disposition.
joy	tweets	When you're prof suggest @Pharrell and William James may be unlikely dialogue partners and then plays the #happy video #WeAreCST
joy	tweets	The return of Matt Damon, and of director Paul Greengrass, brings back all the exhilarating if rather po-faced entertainment to a movie
joy	tweets	Thinking about trying some comedy on youtube. Always been fond of it. Time to nut up.  #comedy #maybeoneday #hopefullyfunny #LOL
joy	tweets	@ClaireBlair27 See, that's how you and Michelle are so cheery!
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @brooke_bridges #lively #musically
joy	tweets	#LMFAO @MSNBC 's #racepimp Tamron Hall used the words 'fscts' and 'MSNBC' in the same sentence #hilarity #libtard #biasedmedia #neverHillary
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory.' - George S. Patton
joy	tweets	promise of restoration to the nation of israel...'everywhere you look blessing '..barns/wine overflow.Everything beautiful #joyful #do_u_see
joy	tweets	@biggerthanyuu He's flushed upon hearing the feeling is reciprocated. He's elated to shove himself right into his arms and hug him tightly.+
joy	tweets	Why have I only just started watching glee this week I am now addicted 🙄  #GLEEK
joy	tweets	I aspire to have Val's self confidence and optimism tbh 👏💖 #GBBO
joy	tweets	I can not depict what I feel right now.. I feel jubilant yet anxious, or..dunno. It seems like now I'm having something worth wait everyday.
joy	tweets	@bijayjanand\nIt's not just a treat for viewers to watch u as janak, it's simply a treat for our soul, mind, thoughts. #hearty respect 🙏🙏
joy	tweets	Just now we were rejoicing that we finally won a match the draw just revealed that we are facing city next. This life sef
joy	tweets	@AimiSyafiqahR go check up with your bf. He'll give u strength with just one smile. #TOPno1
joy	tweets	Charlotte and a friend just climbed to the top of a windmill! Think the view was easy, breezy, beautiful? @PlayHollywoodU
joy	tweets	Omg. You've got to watch the new series 'This is Us'.....wow. Best tv show I've seen in a long time.\n #tears  #moretears
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @katyy.mae  #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @hannah..mccloud  #musically
joy	tweets	What if.... the Metro LRT went over the Walterdale?!?! 😂 #yeg #levity
joy	tweets	@DailyMailCeleb @KTHopkins Katie I love how you describe yourself as 'normal'. Really you're anything but! #hilarious #neverchange
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @kana_blender #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@TiburonChamber plus a hearty pour of #yachtrock by #mustacheharbor !
joy	tweets	@u4uzoma Boss I see you as someone that is jovial and funny. Tho av not met u in person.
joy	tweets	@carysmithwriter @Maria_Savva @RealRockAndRoll We're the least known band in the World, but so glad you asked #muchlove
joy	tweets	#Talking about our #Problems is our greatest #Addiction#Break the #habitTalk about ur #Joys#quote  #problemsolving #behappy
joy	tweets	@nw_autonate \n\n*She held the back of his skull, smiling into the kiss.*
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @ittzdevin  #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @__.mila.__ #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @swagrman_fan #lively #musically
joy	tweets	#ukedchat A4 Just go outside (or to the gym hall) and play! \n#education #playful #learning
joy	tweets	it was both lively &amp; lovely @crumblepie15 @buryprofs @DittoBistro #BuffnPolish
joy	tweets	@jessbr0ughton don't be shy next time! We're a cheery bunch. :) \n\nSam. X
joy	tweets	To insure good health: Eat lightly, breathe deeply, live moderately, cultivate cheerfulness, and maintain an interest in life.
joy	tweets	@Chr1sMcLaughlin he's brilliant, lost the joyous plot with us that year. Admits being a fan now after that.
joy	tweets	It has been medically proven that laughter is an effective pain killer.
joy	tweets	@ashleynwinters I don't like the statement but I love the optimism
joy	tweets	I've got some new pens to break in. Name an animated series and I'll draw you in that style 🖍
joy	tweets	felt a bit shit getting a very high blood sugar then i remembered it's my first one above 15 this week which is incredible for me!
joy	tweets	@UKLittleKitchen Defo a hearty root veg gratin. Nice comfort food as Autumn kicks in
joy	tweets	@Corsair those sparkling looks like a gay vampire 😁
joy	tweets	Yahweh your God is among you, a warrior who saves. He will rejoice over you with gladness.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @jaredhorgan #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Always doing the EmotionalHedge™ w #WPS\n\nI'm elated about start.  Have I mentioned I'm on TAMU -6?!
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @thebrandonrobert  #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @broitzmax #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Relive Vegas' heyday with Rat Pack tribute
joy	tweets	I wish there was a #glee version of @ShawnMendes Stitches. @GLEEonFOX #gleekforever
joy	tweets	i fix a clever ritual to make you feel frolicsome
joy	tweets	Panda eyed jaunty after watching jaws until late!
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @broitzmax  #musically
joy	tweets	A cheerful heart is an unending banquet.- Proverbs (Mishle) 15:16
joy	tweets	Anyone know how the #Mariners did today? The mood here seems strangely jubilant! As Meatloaf says, 2 out of 3 ain't bad, unless you win one!
joy	tweets	@DailyMailCeleb @KTHopkins Katie I love how you describe yourself as 'normal'. Really you're anything but!  #neverchange
joy	tweets	My friend just messaged me 'ugh I'm so hungry I can't wait for breakfast' #socialmedia #WineWednesday  #funny #laughing
joy	tweets	Quote_Soup: Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything.
joy	tweets	repentance, and trusting in Christ. It is lowly and painful, but it is also joyous, peaceful, and absolutely glorious. (2/2)
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @brooks_swaggysquad #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@AQpk which was worse than expected and hilarious too. no one will even remember.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @matt.boss #lively #musicallyjh
joy	tweets	Queen Bey will be smiling over sixth this afternoon
joy	tweets	@carysmithwriter @Maria_Savva @RealRockAndRoll We're the least known band in the World, but so glad you asked #muchlove #hilarious
joy	tweets	@RapeseedOilFans \nWho nose where those scent roses went\nTo a spot in the Orient\nMummified\nIn rapeseed oil fried\nEating drinking &amp; merriment.
joy	tweets	When something makes you excited, terrified, thrilled, nervous, elated &amp; like you've been kicked in the guts all at once. Need word for that
joy	tweets	@Nekudere oh ok, yeah I felt dumb like I think I would have known if it was animated at least lmao
joy	tweets	@LoriAlan1 Seriously. Digging those eyebrows.
joy	tweets	@FullTimeDEVILS Memphis looking bright. Rojo looking like Rojo.
joy	tweets	@ESPNLosAngeles best segment so far by @marcelluswiley @Kdubblive  hilarity
joy	tweets	Taguchi engineering fashionable hale and hearty little game optimization: MqnAOcU
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @arbitraryvlog  #musically
joy	tweets	Update: I have yet to hang out with @MisElizaJane, but I'm still hopeful! #optimism
joy	tweets	@aradsliff don't know I'm from nj we are the worst on purpose. #laughter
joy	tweets	*ZETH voice*: Hit The Target \n (holds up upside down cheering towel)
joy	tweets	Benefit out exhilaration called online backing off: JkUVmvQXY
joy	tweets	Optimism leads to success. - Bill Kerr @Coach__Kerr #success #optimism #goals
joy	tweets	@AphoticSanguine —but be a little playful. \n\nHe hesitantly pulls away, just enough so he could get words out, lips brushing against—
joy	tweets	“When we give cheerfully and accept gratefully, everyone is blessed.”―Maya Angelou
joy	tweets	@LoriAlan1 Seriously. Digging those eyebrows. #animated
joy	tweets	me taking a picture by myself: *awkward smile*\nme on picture day: *awkward smile*\nconclusion: stop smiling ;'(\n #pictureday2016  #ornot
joy	tweets	#Followback Quote_Soup: Be happy not because everything is good, but because you can see the good side of everything. #optimism
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @rosannahill  #musically
joy	tweets	I assume that people pick up on my joviality coz I lol a lot but it's just not working. Maybe I need to get heavy handed with emoticons? Ha
joy	tweets	Your lion's heart\nWill protect you under stormy skies\nAnd I will always be listening for your laughter and your tears
joy	tweets	@LPDonovan this is why I think his pre prepped debate answers have the potential for hilarity
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @__.mila.__  #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @mrgummyking  #musically
joy	tweets	To all who follow me, whether we've ever talked or not hope you have a joyous life. Goodbye.
joy	tweets	Whether you are rejoicing or fighting back tears, God wants to share the moment with you.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @thebrandonrobert #lively #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @its.finfin  #musically
joy	tweets	@thetwattickla @NottRihanna lol no it's sparkling wine
joy	tweets	@DipstickDipper \n'It's alright!' She said cheerfully trying to make the moment fun
joy	tweets	@rosyIipH glee glee glee glee gLEE GLEE i LOST LOST LOST lowe much
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @evanhufferd  #musically
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @ittzdevin #lively #musically
joy	tweets	And you as well! #sparkling @cherebork @MelissaJoyRD @SarahKoszykRD @eat4performance @rustnutrition @jenhaugen
joy	tweets	A cheerful sloth annotated old books about a very good man then the gods ended evil.
joy	tweets	@chenaidavid easy, breezy, beautiful rasta mon
joy	tweets	Accept the challenges so that you can feel the exhilaration of victory. -George S. Patton
joy	tweets	When we give cheerfully and accept gratefully, everyone is blessed.\n»Maya Angelou\n\n@DrMayaAngelou #RIP #MayaAngelou
joy	tweets	The human race has one really effective weapon, and that is laughter. -- Mark Twain
joy	tweets	@IndieWire @cinemaeyehonors #WaltzWithBashir was incredible, tho I think it's more of an #animated film than #documentary about #Lebanon war
joy	tweets	A good thing about being sick is that coughing is like an ab workout. Maybe my abs will be more defined by the time I'm better 😂😅
joy	tweets	@OilersFanSean yup I feel dirty cheering
joy	tweets	Possible magazines over against put with versus thy joviality conjunction shower quotient sufficiently: BQAvtja
joy	tweets	Just like there is a right way to pray, there is a right way to give - not grudgingly or of necessity, but cheerfully. #woficc
joy	tweets	@JoshuaLenon I trust you know that I appreciate your willingness to explain the details, and my attempt at levity is just that. @bobambrogi
joy	tweets	Check out this #film Robocoq 301 #animated #shortfilms
joy	tweets	A good thing about being sick is that coughing is like an ab workout. Maybe my abs will be more defined by the time I'm better 😂😅 #optimism
joy	tweets	i'm doing laundry and watching that 70's show with a bunch of strangers. #happy #birthday #to #me
joy	tweets	The neighbor dancing in the Clayton Homes commercial is me.
joy	tweets	@DKTaylorWriter I thought that was funny, too. But maybe not such a coincidence. Green must be the official color of optimism.
joy	tweets	It breaks my heart seeing people down or upset.. I will try my best to make them smile or cheer them up 🤗
joy	tweets	@buzzlightbeard2 If you don't love yourself... Honesty is the best policy #smile
joy	tweets	@philjame5 @spoke_bros wow! that looks bright
joy	tweets	So is cheerfulness, or a good temper, the more it is spent, the more remains. Ralph Waldo Emerson
joy	tweets	@smoothkobra after such a heavy 2 days this has given much needed levity. Thanks bro
joy	tweets	Never make a #decision when you're #angry and never make a #promise when you're #happy. #wisewords
joy	tweets	Evening all. Don't forget it's #RobinHoodHour TONIGHT 🏹\n\n #bizitalk #bizhour #southyorkshire #MansfieldHour  #sheffieldHour #NottsHour
joy	tweets	A decent sleep makes Kurt a happy soldier. Spit &amp; polish the converse men. chests out and baseball caps at a jaunty angle.
joy	tweets	I #rejoice in following your statutes as one rejoices in great riches. -Psalm 119:14 #TheBible
joy	tweets	“Don’t burn out; keep yourselves fueled and aflame. Be alert servants of the Master, cheerfully expectant.' Romans 12:11-12
joy	tweets	i'm doing laundry and watching that 70's show with a bunch of strangers.  #birthday #to #me
joy	tweets	I think what 2016 to really needs to round it out is a @cthulhu4america vs @smod2016 twitter debate. End on something joyful, ya know?.
joy	tweets	I saw her, whose countenance expressed a mighty rivers were monotonous, and her lively conversation took care of the various
joy	tweets	I'm really hitting all flavors of my sparkling water rap. But you know what's tripping me out? These half French and Spanish flavors.
joy	tweets	Twitter is a font of endless hilarity.
joy	tweets	@tunaeP_ cheer up☺️
joy	tweets	He maketh the #barren woman to keep house &amp; to be a #joyful mother of children\nPraise ye the Lord\nPsa113:9
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @arbitraryvlog #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@PeanutRD @MelissaJoyRD @SarahKoszykRD @eat4performance @rustnutrition @jenhaugen  hey #sparkling is the word I just picked 4 my biz card
joy	tweets	@doubtcaspar babe :(( remember I'm ALWAYS here if u need a little cheering up or talk, ily lots💘
joy	tweets	@Hank_nsno @RonaldKoeman cheering and clapping I assume
joy	tweets	Decide to stop being afraid. To just stop. What are you now free to do?\n\n#brave #free #honest #healthy #happy #life #living #optimism #love
joy	tweets	#Arts create richness &amp; liveliness in our society, continues through educational &amp; social benefits, and only ends with the economic
joy	tweets	Hey u never know, Channel 4's version of #GBBO might actually be quite good. A few adverts aren't the end of the world.
joy	tweets	@melsey6 oh good girl hope she is cheerful
joy	tweets	Not my fault if I'm more observant than you thought of me to be ! 😜 I'm not sorry 😝 #wisdom #laughter #observingyou #allthetime #becareful 😎
joy	tweets	Top seed Johnson chases double delight at Tour Championship
joy	tweets	incetown, age 23, joyful, elevated in hope with the
joy	tweets	@88Palouseriver @ABC @NRA I rejoice everything time some moron is taken out of the genetics pool.
joy	tweets	@delon03 can you at least just walk past her and break out into laughter
joy	tweets	Day 3 of #harvest16 - listening to the sound of the chopper working it's way closer to home at @mountaindairy makes me . #farm365
joy	tweets	I might not pay for my own health insurance but I do like sparkling water and Brussels sprouts now so I think I'm an adult
joy	tweets	@CazuaL_WeaR @ScottInSC looks like a book shaped like a gun to me #optimism #itsagunalright
joy	tweets	I am always ready to .
joy	tweets	The point of living, and being an optimist, is to be foolish enough to believe the best is yet to come' - Peter Ustinov  #quote
joy	tweets	Intermit animated^%%%ncaa pittsburgh vs mississippi sprightly shiny bbva level peg varsity football telly scra...
joy	tweets	Turkish exhilaration: for a 30% shade off irruptive russian visitors this twelvemonth, gobbler is nephalism so...
joy	tweets	#ThisIsUs has messed with my mind &amp; now I'm anticipating the next episode with #apprehension &amp; #delight! #isthereahelplineforthis
joy	tweets	Now I'm back at @wxpnfm and am elated to record @mannequinpussy fucking shit up in our studio this evening.
joy	tweets	The Quarterback' wrecks me every time.. #glee
joy	tweets	A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones. A wicked man accepts a bribe in secret to pervert  justice.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @matt.boss  #musicallyjh
joy	tweets	A cheerful heart is good medicine, but a crushed spirit dries up the bones -Proverbs 17:22-
joy	tweets	@TheNotoriousMMA looking like @MIckeyRourkeFP in his heyday
joy	tweets	I see I'll be hovering over the block button today with much glee.
joy	tweets	Am I watching #BacheloretteAU or Zoolander ?  #samvrhys
joy	tweets	i started glee from the beginning n i'm crying they were such babies i love my children
joy	tweets	Decide to stop being afraid. To just stop. What are you now free to do?\n\n #brave #free #honest #healthy  #life #living  #love
joy	tweets	#ThisIsUs has messed with my mind &amp; now I'm anticipating the next episode with #apprehension &amp; ! #isthereahelplineforthis
joy	tweets	You have to find a way to top yourself. #glee
joy	tweets	You know, you're pro-actively playful. You want to press your boobs into my face, Tatenashi. I'm not saying no, though. =3
joy	tweets	lol! no mention of pak PM or even his speech on any international news channel and pakis are rejoicing as if the world stands with them
joy	tweets	@veggiesausage that happens...u will be ok tomorrow cheer it up..Don't give up no no no😝😝😝
joy	tweets	Update: I have yet to hang out with @MisElizaJane, but I'm still hopeful!
joy	tweets	“The essential Saltes of Animals may be\nArkham’s large outfit from any effects he\nI rejoice that you continue in ye
joy	tweets	@warmneutrals 'passenger in car next to u cheerfully asks for a cigarette and then directions'
joy	tweets	@EtherealMystic_ - felt like he couldn't control — and here she was, giving so much of herself, selflessly pleasing him. His groans were -
joy	tweets	@TChudhry @fasiranjha lol @ ur caste. even if the whole village dies.. a massali like you cant be a chaudhry:) so cheer up massali :)
joy	tweets	will i ever get the nerve to quit the restaurant ??? find out tonite on glee!
joy	tweets	#RIP30 Heaven is rejoicing because they've gained an angel, the Keifer family are in my prayers 💙🙏
joy	tweets	@DanLanthier That was exhilarating hockey. They're still out if Russia wins in regulation I'm reading. #fuck
joy	tweets	My boss likes to stand in my office &amp; smile at me like a shark: maliciously gleeful, and ask me how am I as if I have a secret to tell her.
joy	tweets	Cross Party Group on Crofting meeting tonight in @ScotParl. Suspect it's going to be a lively meeting....
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @brooks_swaggysquad  #musically
joy	tweets	Riggs dumb ass hell lolol  #LethalWeapon
joy	tweets	@footballmcd agreed. Memphis looks lively also
joy	tweets	Hey NASCAR fans. Are you going to the race in Loudon this weekend?  Why not stop by New Day Diner for a great hearty breakfast before you go
joy	tweets	Had a coworker look at her phone and say, cheerfully, 'oh look, Kap's getting death threats now.' 🙄. Then she goes to say the 49ers are
joy	tweets	Hey u never know, Channel 4's version of #GBBO might actually be quite good. A few adverts aren't the end of the world. #optimism
joy	tweets	the prospect of getting choked out by a hot daddy tonight is sorta cheering me up but I also kinda just wanna watch the new AHS episode lol
joy	tweets	“Set a goal to achieve something that's so big so exhilarating that excites you &amp; scares you at the same time.” \n― #BobProctor
joy	tweets	@zinabukvic_ cheer up
joy	tweets	My two older boys were elated, my toddler was terrified. I have pics of his poor little face peeping through the hole in the basket.
joy	tweets	@SoCalValerie this one was Apples attempt to make muslims happy 🕋
joy	tweets	Tom Phillips being all jovial at the start of this week's show when Joe is strutting out after that video package is quite the juxtaposition
joy	tweets	Bring back the heyday #NominateBunkface
joy	tweets	At the regular cheerfulness of any emotion, her own supper, and to give the ladies were soon as they have been entirely at
joy	tweets	Blake lively is flawless
joy	tweets	every time a new Anthony Weiner revelation breaks, Bill Clinton says a prayer of thanks that texting/DMing didn't exist in his heyday.
joy	tweets	@finkowska just rejoice if you get paid for it.
joy	tweets	her; i want a playful relationship\nme; *kicks her off the couch*
joy	tweets	#Talking about our #Problems is our greatest #Addiction\n\n#Break the #habit\n\nTalk about ur #Joys\n\n#quote #optimism #problemsolving #behappy
joy	tweets	When your rewatching glee and break down in tears all over again. 😭😢 #glee
joy	tweets	#food  #деньги #smile   microsoft_.net_framework_4.5.1_full_plus_by_gora
joy	tweets	Tip 5: Don't worry about pleasing everyone. #TitanWisdom
joy	tweets	@finkowska @PigletParker they happen. I expect your thumbs were all over the place in glee, interpreting my double negative.
joy	tweets	Go follow #beautiful #Snowgang ♥@Amynicolehill12 ♥ #Princess #fitness #bodyposi #haircut  #Whitegirlwednesday
joy	tweets	@Devilligan It's a beautifully sincere balancing act of grief and hilarity.
joy	tweets	@AllredMD @KerryCallen @thismanthispete Kirby's Black Panther in a cool animated panel.
joy	tweets	@Bookselenaxxx @Hustler @Bookselenaxxx @Hustler \n👅💦👅💦👅💦👅💦👅💦👅that hot pussy unappetizing that delight
joy	tweets	Cover it up with a smile, maybe it'll get better
joy	tweets	Currently listening to @ScottFoxonair &amp; @KatCallaghan @Z1035Toronto podcasts!! Can you guys please move to #yvr ?  #missyou
joy	tweets	@FoRDaYS14 😳 chewing what? #smile #arcdental #turlock
joy	tweets	Laudrup and his evil white companions rejoice.
joy	tweets	My ukulele bag has fallen apart. 😐 WELLL AT LEAST my life hasn't yet!! #Joys\n\n#quote  #problemsolving #behappy
joy	tweets	@JohnDotWhite I remember its heyday, but these ladies range in age from, I'd say, mid-30s to early 70s.
joy	tweets	The point of living, and being an optimist, is to be foolish enough to believe the best is yet to come' - Peter Ustinov #optimism #quote
joy	tweets	@elena_yip My random guesses for you! A potential Amelie, Kenneth of 30 Rock (but YA instead of TV) &amp; maybe w/ the optimism of Lara Jean?
joy	tweets	@SloanTheOtaku Betelgeuse/Sloth was lively, dedicated and tenacious, Regulus/Greed is humbly content and Ley/Gluttony is starving hungry.
joy	tweets	@Tomstarling86 He didn't have many chances to show what he can do but looked lively and had a good shot tipped over the bar before the end.
joy	tweets	@GNRailUK There's gonna be street parties when you lot leave. Spontaneous rejoicing. Clowns.
joy	tweets	@iamnotatwit Or did I lie and cut 5 years off my age to be young and spry and hire-able in Hollywood? #thegoldbergs
joy	tweets	@CohenDS Yell, 'Bye, garbage!' cheerfully after it.
joy	tweets	what happened to breezy
joy	tweets	Love how cheerful that woman is about storing someone else's furniture for an eternity. I'd have sold it by now. #GrandDesigns
joy	tweets	•Days!'\nHe was itching for a fight..itching for the exhilaration of battle, of almost getting defeated, the adrenaline pumping•\n@RojinHitto
joy	tweets	the Lord turn his face toward you and give you peace. Numbers 6:26 #truth #trust #promise #calm #justice #great #mighty #protected
joy	tweets	Be free and open and breezy! Enjoy! Things won't get any better so get used to it.
joy	tweets	Lil reminder that my private account is a delight of shittalking and occasionally NSFW stuff! @AngryArchosaur
joy	tweets	every day i have to think in my mind will this be pleasing to God. my decision making, the way i react, treat ppl, speak, am i pleasing God.
joy	tweets	Trying to loveee somebody, just wanna love somebody right now, guess there's just no pleasing me
joy	tweets	Follow me in instagram 1.0.7 #love #TagsForLikes #TFLers #tweegram #photooftheday #20likes #amazing #smile #follow4follow #like4like #look …
joy	tweets	don't put famous dex in a tweet with breezy lol chris is that guy dex a bitch lmao n music ass
joy	tweets	Athenian: When mirth is the order of the day, he ought to be honoured most who gives most mirth to the greatest number (Laws)
joy	tweets	The birds chirp , the sun shines and the wind chimes chime. There was once a smile on this face.
joy	tweets	@rantking just adding a little levity
joy	tweets	@FoRDaYS14 😳 chewing what?  #arcdental #turlock
joy	tweets	@MerenthaProphet - the Hunter in this way, content and joyous in simple, domestic bliss? I cannot wait for word of who you truly are to -
joy	tweets	@_haye_ optimism is he'll lose, that's actually a compromise :P
joy	tweets	Misery loves company. The church ought to be a place where it finds none.\n-Pastor Kris Theobald #joy #rejoice
joy	tweets	@BrightPigSEO @BrightPigSEO we provide dignified and professional funerals at prices families can afford #satisfied clients #bright pig
joy	tweets	#Talking about our #Problems is our greatest #Addiction#Break the #habitTalk about ur #Joys#quote #optimism #problemsolving #behappy
joy	tweets	#hate going to the doctor on so many levels but least I can go sleep with a #smile just watched #Dwight on live nation
joy	tweets	Do not truck the delight; delight the truck.
joy	tweets	@Blancalanka96 thought it'd be fun and it is not fun but on the bright side I don't have to fight for parking
joy	tweets	Miami proficiency is like pleasing by what name miami beaches: pIkxb
joy	tweets	@suavecitamay sparkling water is nice you know I tried it the other day
joy	tweets	@gatewaypundit Mostly animated audience I'd bet...green sceen folk...the ones that don't need air..!
joy	tweets	Today's realisation that it was the last time I watch swimming lesson cos I go back to work next week lead to a joyous bedtime. #worstoneyet
joy	tweets	Pinterest one dessert... Next thing you know your pinning how to make 27 different visually pleasing mouth watering never gonna make sweets.
joy	tweets	I'm worried someday I'll be yelling at my kids and they'll be confused about if or not I'm being serious 😭😭😭\n\nI'm too damn playful
joy	tweets	@PeteSpencer007 Are you always so relentlessly positive? Your constantly cheerful optimistic disposition starts to grate after a while.
joy	tweets	Mind if I tag along?' She asked cheerfully, sweeping a lock of hair behind her ear. 'I want to see if you've really got • @DitheringWizard
joy	tweets	Pre-prepare direction plays hale and hearty situation an in child's evolvement: CMmyd
joy	tweets	only time I am ever cheering for you Johnny
joy	tweets	@JackCurryYES he's just lucky...bad pitchers...#WHATEVER...ElKracken is #legit #future #bright #gottawearshades #LetsGoYankees
joy	tweets	Being playful as shit😤
joy	tweets	Final night shift coming up.  I won't miss it but I will miss my work pals and the hysterical laughter that gets us through the night
joy	tweets	@ColMorrisDavis @rolling_2 @realDonaldTrump @pbump He's jubilant to hear the word that he probably uses in secret heard out loud.
joy	tweets	@blackeyed_susie They ain't going away, and I don't want to see them hurt; changing hearts/minds is really our only option, no? #optimism
joy	tweets	I love when my dog is playful, but he really just scratched my face while flailing his paws in excitement and almost tore my nose ring out
joy	tweets	@fillegrossiere @PeasParsley @tombrodude bobs burgers is an animated show. Maybe Bob looks like him. They would cast him based on voice too
joy	tweets	I take a strange delight from seeing mark Hughes struggle
joy	tweets	@MalYoung @AngelicaMcD I hope to now see some levity, light, romance and happiness come Stitch and Abby's way after such a long hard road.
joy	tweets	On the bright side with YouTube heroes leafy will finally get banned
joy	tweets	myself that despite the absolute delight my children and I would feel having a kitten in our home, the misery my husband would feel is more.
joy	tweets	@colmjoconnor well it was after my heyday too I'm afraid, I was expecting 1st baby I reckon. Now aged 15 *gulps* I'm so old :-)
joy	tweets	@KMunie7 @KaranEsch Helluva lot more animated than they were for the actual game &gt;.&lt;
joy	tweets	backed pats -2.5 10/11 just before #pleasing
joy	tweets	backed pats -2.5 10/11 just before
joy	tweets	Loading mirth out to be trusted websites: LKskQUfke
joy	tweets	@FOXTV did you use the warblers set from glee on the @BONESonFOX episode about the acapella college kids?
joy	tweets	If I were assured of your eventual destruction I would, in the interests of the public, cheerfully accept my own.' -Sherlock Holmes-
joy	tweets	GKN so lively as well, mad quick
joy	tweets	@AdamCimmering Boro are at the OS before then, they could give the stewards a good work out. Chelsea will get about 8k, will be lively.
joy	tweets	@JackCurryYES he's just lucky...bad pitchers...#WHATEVER...ElKracken is #legit #future  #gottawearshades #LetsGoYankees
joy	tweets	i mean i guess most of the mean ones are treated as like playful but i want to support yoosung without dating him ;___;
joy	tweets	Method into thin out assault corridor thine liveliness: cHd
joy	tweets	@niceoneWern @Alotta_Pain the gleesome threesome
joy	tweets	@eachus At least he's willing to discuss, better than most. That and keep the insults light with occasional levity or creative BS-ing,
joy	tweets	@flutterpolitely she is from the heyday 80's -could go either way, writing should be stronger but don't know who will be sacrificed first
joy	tweets	Stack up with porthole under way heyday through worthy of faith bull's-eye transportation services: moM
joy	tweets	i bet dat dog eating name brand cheerios. cant relate. i eat cheery O's
joy	tweets	Well look at the bright side. You found a use for that rope #TipsToSurviveAPowerOutage
joy	tweets	@hoemanda69 wtf is tenacious and jubilant
joy	tweets	Dark, dense, and exhilarating come the finale, #HellOrHighWater is a gripping watch.
joy	tweets	I wish there were unlimited glee episodes:( so I could watch them forever. #gleegoodbye
joy	tweets	A not very young man compiled info on a smiling baby then a mattress created new evil.
joy	tweets	Question for all the cheerleaders who ages out!!\nHow to I make my senior year of cheer more memorable
joy	tweets	@_Kdddd drop some off at 1133 cheery
joy	tweets	which always leads to the kind of hilarity average people will never experience - especially during breakups.
joy	tweets	HMS Pinafore' time.\n\nI need some mirth.
joy	tweets	@OrbsOfJoy plan a date... like a date u find pleasing or smth. fuckign\n\n10/10. because the child will grow to be a ten out of ten
joy	tweets	@johnwintertweet dudes who wanna play some bass but not buy a bass (me) rejoice
joy	tweets	@lennyabrahamson May I send you a copy of #HeroTheGreyhound? Either e-book or real paper one! A boy and a greyhound #smiles #tears
joy	tweets	@CNBCFastMoney Harwood gleeful at these new numbers, bet your money on this reporting...look to lose it...@HillaryClinton liarthiefscoundrel
joy	tweets	If I were assured of your eventual destruction I would, in the interests of the public, cheerfully accept my own.' Sherlock Holmes
joy	tweets	@mehnazt @Mel_Harder I live a life devoid of mirth. Come to think of it, there aren't enough taco bowls in my life, either.
joy	tweets	Watch this amazing live.ly broadcast by @haythatjamile8 #lively #musically
joy	tweets	@mark_slifer actually maybe we were supposed to die and my donation saved our lives?? #optimism
joy	tweets	@_j_sa_ switch out Steve Carrell and put in Kurt from glee then it's accurate
joy	tweets	don't be with some just because they try to drown you in gifts. be with someone who makes you truly happy, without the materialistic things.
joy	tweets	With that draw, the scum must be rubbing their hands with glee! Typical draw for the Woolwich lot!!! #jammygunnerscum
joy	tweets	All the fans wanted Man Utd at home in the next round...\nAre you cheering for Northampton or Man Utd right now?\n#lufc
joy	tweets	@FlannelJedi This is why I drink and watch You're the Worst as a way to cheer myself up.
joy	tweets	Sometimes he likes to ride arround on people's shoulders or drop on them unexpectedly from vents or doorjambs. Like a big, gleeful spider.
joy	tweets	@crumpledlinen he chirp
joy	tweets	You have to find a way to top yourself.
joy	tweets	cluck cluck cluck, wolf wolf wolf , chirp chirp chirp is all I ever hear.
joy	tweets	@LeBatardShow #heyday Race war 2016
joy	tweets	@buzzlightbeard2 If you don't love yourself... Honesty is the best policy
joy	tweets	listening to the Oblivion score, drinking coffee, researching for new sci-fi animated project.
joy	tweets	@lilymooregrant u used to chirp me for drinking it u hoe
joy	tweets	@CNN &amp; @donlemon must be rejoicing ovet #Charlotte protests. \n#NorthCarolina
joy	tweets	342:147 And waxen in their mirth, and neeze, and swear\nA merrier hour was never wasted there.--\n#AMNDBots
joy	tweets	@SXMUrbanView @karenhunter @CousinSyl you are so wrong for this!needed levity after that recording
joy	tweets	smiling through the stress :) :) :) :) :) :) :( :( :( :( :( :( :(
joy	tweets	@honevbee close up shots of my ugly mug as I continue to talk about Blaine years after glee has been dead
joy	tweets	Rec'd call 2day from Haitian church we started in Florida some 15yrs ago. Preparing to acquire their own bldg. Wanted me to know.
joy	tweets	Doesn't it just suck when you're so real to someone and try to exhilarate every ounce out of them to only see that they're not down
joy	tweets	Positive #psychology research shows salespeople who score in the top 10% for #optimism have 88% &gt; sales than those in top 10% for pessimism.
joy	tweets	Tend the sick, Lord Christ; give rest to the weary, bless the dying, soothe the suffering, pity the afflicted, shield the joyous;
joy	tweets	Never make a #decision when you're #angry and never make a #promise when you're . #wisewords
joy	tweets	A 'non-permissive environment' is also called a 'battleground' - #MilSpeak
joy	tweets	No, just tweet pictures of four fictional characters who describe you. One should be an animated character. @sunshinessp411
joy	tweets	@israelradioguy @WearingWelcome @SkipBaylessSux U blocking doesnt diminish the hilarity of his observation.Or your child-like response to it
joy	tweets	Meanwhile, the so-called M’s fans sit there knitting or sleeping not sure which but they certainly aren’t cheering like the other teams fans
joy	tweets	@musicfae15 [He grumbled as he sat atop the sushi bar stool, crossing his arms defiantly, in a playful gesture, though he gave anyone who &gt;
joy	tweets	One time I saw Rachel from glee tell someone their job was on a pole and I said that in 5th grade to a boy and he look confused
joy	tweets	@Dubai92 try asking for a cheeseburger with only onion &amp; mustard at any #McDonalds
joy	tweets	Fee otherwise tricks: palm oil delegation mt jaunty resident: TZxCHLdAQ
joy	tweets	@TheBarmyArmy all the optimism...
joy	tweets	The bounty hunter things a bit lively
joy	tweets	@Spotted_H0rse I'm spry, though
joy	tweets	mirana told me to shut up when i was singing along to glee...
joy	tweets	The Quarterback' wrecks me every time..
joy	tweets	A former diplomat is quite gleeful about the situation of Pakistan on @TimesNow\nNot quite stiff upper lip of diplomacy seen normally
joy	tweets	@ryanwilson2015 That's why compatibility is key as it lowers hedonic volatility.
joy	tweets	Halfway to work and I realize I forgot to put on underwear....It's going to be one of those days! #mombrain #toomuchgoingon #longday #breezy
joy	tweets	god, Facebook's design has started to remind me of MySpace in its heyday
joy	tweets	Halfway to work and I realize I forgot to put on underwear....It's going to be one of those days! #mombrain #toomuchgoingon #longday
joy	tweets	Three days off a month with two ex wives and no home could be worse. I don't know how, but it could #oilandgas #optimism
joy	tweets	@EngrNabeeel then rejoicing now is a lil' bit prematured dont you think🤔🤔🤔
joy	tweets	it's so breezy out today, i can't go to back to school night with bare legs like i've had all day
joy	tweets	@jellzybean cheer up punkin'
joy	tweets	@APkrawczynski   Any possibly KG is being bought out as a player so that he can buy in from Glen as a minority owner?
joy	tweets	I saw those dreams dashed &amp;&amp; divided like a million stars in the night sky that I wished on over &amp;&amp; over again ~ sparkling &amp;&amp; broken.
joy	tweets	@EducatedNPetty white pricks that were laughing at your use of language won't be crying over your coffin but rejoicing that you're another
joy	tweets	Light of day per heyday popularization backfire cinematography: XUcQb
joy	tweets	@peachkellipop the whole thread is jovial and fun and then this comment is like FULL of misogyny
joy	tweets	@Nikhilv95 @LydiajaneF I wish, I really, truly wish, that I had just a modicum of your banter.
joy	tweets	@mark_slifer actually maybe we were supposed to die and my donation saved our lives??
joy	tweets	Misery loves company. The church ought to be a place where it finds none.\n-Pastor Kris Theobald #joy
joy	tweets	@Spacekatgal @outmagazine Its okay to be trans just rejoice with the trans in the trans way. By the way it's not your business, so why care?
joy	tweets	@berniedole looks that way. But let's think about Rohan last week ... #optimism
joy	tweets	At 12:01, Tumblr became sentient. At 1.:02, Tumblr posted gn animated gif about it. At 12:03, Tumblr shipped itself.
joy	tweets	#LMFAO @MSNBC 's #racepimp Tamron Hall used the words 'fscts' and 'MSNBC' in the same sentence  #libtard #biasedmedia #neverHillary
joy	tweets	Research has determined 70% of #laughter is actually #anxiety.
joy	tweets	@NebulaJoker No, they aren't. Episodes are animated during the week before they air.
joy	tweets	@iyaycruz lets see chirp
joy	tweets	Val is far too cheery for my liking ✋🏻
joy	tweets	But i'll be a pity. 🐑 #lively
joy	tweets	When your rewatching glee and break down in tears all over again. 😭😢
joy	tweets	Does anyone remember a movie that is animated in the late 70's called Shame of the Jungle John Bulushi was in it wild if that's your taste
joy	tweets	@ItWontCostMuch_ 'Bed done... floor will be done last... curtains! A-hah!' She tried to sound all happy and cheery but she really wasn't.--
joy	tweets	@weebtard sparkling water wyd
joy	tweets	The #house no longer echoes with our #laughter. We light up our #memories of the #home and sit in the cold, #waiting. #amwriting #nostalgia
joy	tweets	@blackeyed_susie They ain't going away, and I don't want to see them hurt; changing hearts/minds is really our only option, no?
joy	tweets	#OneSimpleChange: Drink sparkling water instead of soft drinks to steer clear of fructose while still getting a refreshing carbonation kick.
joy	tweets	Dear everyone at HSSU, stop walking with your phones up so I can smile and wave at you and you can smile and wave back :(
joy	tweets	$SRPT Why would Etep patients &amp; Mom's advocate for a drug if it did not work? Anyone listen to the Etep MD's @ Adcomm.. all were elated.
joy	tweets	Gas prices are hilarious. Cause they're simultaneously super subsidised and taxed
joy	tweets	.@POTUS Obama describes his temperament as 'steady &amp; on the buoyant side.'
joy	tweets	Early morning cheerfulness can be extremely obnoxious #ALDUB62ndWeeksary
joy	tweets	Check out this #film Robocoq 301  #shortfilms
joy	tweets	Rap that will Cut other raper's throat. Who said that? @Paedeezy #badd #wicked. #bright city lights
joy	tweets	Who actually chooses to drink sparkling water 🤔
joy	tweets	f breezy
joy	tweets	@bear_ing you asshole... you made me sexually attacked to a animated bear :-P
joy	tweets	Hey @AppleSupport, would be nice to have “click to pause” or “pause when window inactive” on animated GIFs for macOS Messages app
joy	tweets	@CazuaL_WeaR @ScottInSC looks like a book shaped like a gun to me  #itsagunalright
joy	tweets	my haters are like crickets. they chirp all day but when I walk past them they shut the fuck up.- @DritaDavanzo (my idol)
joy	tweets	@TheDemocrats dilemma, blaiming everything on the Bushes, but acting gleeful over their endorsement. #Election2016 #Trump
joy	tweets	@rubeseatsinfo from here, it's but a short step to biweekly Community Meetings over a hearty meal of soy flakes
joy	tweets	The joyful tambourines have ceased. The noise of the jubilant has stopped. The joyful lyre has ceased. -Isaiah 24:8
joy	tweets	noah fence but i want a harley quinn or blake lively layout
joy	tweets	I truly believe in my heart right now that Satan is rejoicing because we are all against one another
joy	tweets	Gloriosa Bazigaga on #Rwanda work: 'I lost relatives in genocide but 15 yrs of peacebuilding has given me optimism it's within our power'
joy	tweets	@HillaryClinton did you see the gleeful look on @realDonaldTrump 's face when criminal Don King used the 'n' word to denigrate Blacks?
joy	tweets	@TheVulcanSalute , just saw the Save The Day PSA. Why were you in obvious tears doing it? I'd have thought you'd be your cheerful self.
joy	tweets	I was cheering for NA team. Now I just want this is over and Gaudreau comes back in one piece. It is getting way too risky
joy	tweets	@alphavenger all chuck seasons, she had that one bright spot with dan, where she was allowed to be smart and kind //and// fashionable
joy	tweets	@BbeautifulSoul_ u always gotta attitude tho ... 😕 cheer up
joy	tweets	Oh that cheery fucking note, good night shit heads X
joy	tweets	categ than GEN &amp;OBC it cost only 100 or nill .i am not against the reservation and i support it,sir minimize the fees #bright fut @PMOIndia
joy	tweets	@ClvlndK8 It's so sad! There's always such optimism with a new year. This is...not good. @BuckshotBandit1 @dapostrophearcy
joy	tweets	Shanghais chief distracting levity pampa - proper dingle carry away: uUDQujcia
joy	tweets	@govph I would like to know about the source of The President's optimism about running the country. I wonder if he can answer my curiosity.
joy	tweets	Unixware skydrive-cokie hearty exactment blame online: HEpHXhO
joy	tweets	@__Dayo yall dont feel bad.. you are rejoicing... it is what itnis... its always #ColtsNation even when we have 6th string DBs playing 😔😔
joy	tweets	Harking back to 2012 - DT's challenge to @POTUS...I will give...DT a hearty thank you...if he will release his tax returns....
joy	tweets	So much news about Pakistan, Afghanistan, etc. We need more cheery news about Frybread Stands!!! Everyone in media just so grim.
joy	tweets	remember when glee did a take me or leave me cover but it was between two girls who werent even friends why did that do that
joy	tweets	I need a bit of #GBBO to cheer me up after a terrible day!
joy	tweets	Logically speaking, this can't be the worst I've ever felt and even if it was then its passing will still be a joyous occasion
joy	tweets	I hate when I try to be playful and get shut down lol ...Why so serious🙁
joy	tweets	As a photographer this portrait shooting mode on the iPhone 7 Plus is going to frustrate me ~75% of the time but delight ~25% of the time.
joy	tweets	Apparently all the money in the world can't buy a single person to tell you not give your own waist a hearty two-handed pinch while onstage.
joy	tweets	People always tell me that they don't expect me to have anxiety because I'm generally cheerful and don't act the way they expect me to.
joy	tweets	Inquiries into alleged abuses by UK troops in Afghanistan and Iraq and data suggesting a buoyant post-Brexit economy makes the front pages.
joy	tweets	Pinky is so funny n jovial, bt she got emotional n just brought me 2 tears. I felt so bad for her #Ishqbaaaz
joy	tweets	@faithstrust @TheeCurrentYear imagine being this stupid for trying to chirp because of some racist prick.
joy	tweets	i wonder how gleeful it is to be dumb af and see the world through rose tinted glasses
joy	tweets	sparkling or still? #terribledebatequestions
joy	tweets	Life izn't about pleasing each others...😕\n\n#hell #with #pleasing
joy	tweets	@debutemma I dont have to sit here and take this from u spry young children
joy	tweets	You don't smile and you say you're in love, but that's why I don't love
joy	tweets	@iamglenn35 the forth character? No... not gleeful enough...
joy	tweets	@emilyycos the other 26 was last night at 2am while i watched the balls i animated bounce for 20 minutes figuring out what was wrong
joy	tweets	I meet new people and I had to grow up with the reality that people can be desgusting and fake and so I lost my cheerfulness and started to
joy	tweets	Feelings got cheated when I mistook the sparkling ribena to be the normal ribena......
joy	tweets	@david_garrett Quite saddened.....no US dates, no joyous anticipation of attending a DG concert (since 2014). Happy you are keeping busy.
joy	tweets	@aradsliff don't know I'm from nj we are the worst on purpose.
joy	tweets	Turns out 'it' wasn't even anything to be concerned about at all. Im happy and a bit frustrated it took so long to get this answer.
joy	tweets	@berniedole looks that way. But let's think about Rohan last week ...
joy	tweets	half day tuhday but nah for glee 😭
joy	tweets	Three days off a month with two ex wives and no home could be worse. I don't know how, but it could #oilandgas
joy	tweets	@LaurenBrierley2 sparkling water = death
joy	tweets	As the birds begin to chirp, I try to sleep. #Jetlag
joy	tweets	When u /only/ talk 2 me or ask me 'how r things' just 2 get 2 say something u want, 4give me if I'm not elated 2 start a conversation with u
joy	tweets	Wanted to get him a cake with sparkling candles but he doesn't like cake😒😒. Ruins everything
joy	tweets	@AdsByFlaherty And you're cheerfully defending a group of unchecked, armed thugs who've shown a history of racism, violence, and lies.
joy	tweets	Sometimes I watch shitty tv to reinforce never giving up cuz if something is that fucking awful on tv, I still stand a chance. #optimism
joy	tweets	@Onision @Eugenia_Cooney annoyed by the good loving fans of Onision including myself Is really annoyed at how people just are too cheerful.
joy	tweets	With a jovial Trump on his ass, Don King just publicly told a crowd that 'We need [him] because you will always be a nigger.'  #FuckTrump
joy	tweets	Your glee filled Normy dry humping of the most recent high profile celebrity break up is pathetic &amp; all that is wrong with the world today.
joy	tweets	@torbalan I still have some shred of optimism. It's rapidly disappearing however...
joy	tweets	Studying the phases of oscillation. How jovial. 😐🔫
joy	tweets	@MaxVenator We've had no foreign policy but have had goofy Secretary of State John Kerry with his devil may care pose and jaunty blue scarf.
joy	tweets	It is too fucking bright &amp; too fucking hot outside
joy	tweets	Quinn's short hair makes me sad.
joy	tweets	But i'll be a pity. 🐑
joy	tweets	Sometimes I watch shitty tv to reinforce never giving up cuz if something is that fucking awful on tv, I still stand a chance.
joy	tweets	The abysmal ignorance, frivolity and levity of the Italian priests stupefied him.' - Roland Bainton on Luther, #ReformationDay
joy	tweets	@SenJohnMcCain @WSJ an 'Honorable Senator' cheering when a cease fire does not hold! PEOPLE DIE AND YOU CHEER! GENOCIDE SUPPORT NOT GOOD!
joy	tweets	Seriously @marksandspencer I'm sick and grumpy and the only thing that's gonna cheer me up is ordering my xmas food, when's it going up? 😢
joy	tweets	It's just the lack of company and liveliness out here that makes me bored.
joy	tweets	Quinn's short hair makes me sad. #glee
joy	tweets	hate overthinking e v e r y t h i n g like i jus' wanna be happy pls
joy	tweets	People who cheer for sports teams completely outside of New Jersey or PA piss me off
joy	tweets	@DamnPatriot You're a POS for rejoicing in someone's death.
