fear	emotional_events	I was sitting on the bus coming back from school. A man from nearly forty years sat beside me. After a while I looked at him and saw that he was looking at me with opened throusers and holding his penis.
fear	emotional_events	Once when I crossed the street, and was nearly trampled by a car.
fear	emotional_events	Passing (by car) over a bridge where only one car could pass. There was a precipice on both sides, no protection grilles, and the bridge was completely muddled.
fear	emotional_events	The day that there was a black-out in the city, and I was in an exposition, I felt fear that something more serious was happening, like a revolution for example.
fear	emotional_events	The week before I entered to army, when we were being selected. During 5 days I had to pass 10 hours a day waiting for the answer, which at last was the worst. The fear of being convoked, of hearing the fated phrase, was constant.
fear	emotional_events	One day, when I realized that I was alone, I felt fear of loneliness.
fear	emotional_events	When I saw a horror film.
fear	emotional_events	I had an important amount of money with me and felt fear of being assaulted.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear some months ago of losing the person whom I loved when she said to me that she didn't love me.
fear	emotional_events	I was in a train where a fight occurred. One person who was there opened his handbag and took out a gun, another who fought too looked among his things for a weapon to fight.
fear	emotional_events	One day I was near home, kissing my boyfriend in a car when my mother appeared and asked me to go home, because she didn't know about the event.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to talk with an important person about a job.
fear	emotional_events	I received a phone call from a high school friend whose younger sister studied with me at the University and gave me a lift every moning. She was going to get married to a guy whom I knew too and who had died when he fell from a building, I was afraid to lose somebody since I had already lost a brother in an accident.
fear	emotional_events	I was alone at home, a man forced the front door which was locked, forced and tried to open a window.
fear	emotional_events	I should have given a test lesson to get a job. I had no courage. I didn't make the test.
fear	emotional_events	I was in the dark room, it's insecure and has holes covered with wooden sheets in the roof the establishment had already been assaulted and could be assaulted again.
fear	emotional_events	I'm afraid of driving on the special seat of a mororcycle, mainly with certain colleagues who by exces of self-confidence drive beyond limits or measure in the traffic and the main victim is always the person who sits behind the driver.
fear	emotional_events	That someone would discover whom I really love.
fear	emotional_events	When there was a fight at home and my father threatened to throw a chair on my brother.
fear	emotional_events	I was with a friend in a stationed car when, suddenly a man appeared on my side and an other with a gun on his side the hold-up lasted a few minutes but it was terrible. I had never seen a gun so close.
fear	emotional_events	When I and the person mentioned above had a suspicion of pregnancy.
fear	emotional_events	Practicing wind-surf my body was caught under the sail. On trying to get out my leg was caught in the lashing. I was afraid of dying by asphixia.
fear	emotional_events	Motorcyclistic accident where for some minutes I didn't know if I was alive or dead, I remained \cold levered\" during the situation á|but felt great fear."
fear	emotional_events	When I whatched a horror film on a Friday 13th.
fear	emotional_events	There was a scene of shooting in front of my house, I was very afraid. Two armed men confronting. I didn't discover the reason of the incident.
fear	emotional_events	When I sit for examinations.
fear	emotional_events	I am afraid if I'll finish the term.
fear	emotional_events	I could have been killed by a falling object.
fear	emotional_events	I feel fear when I only imagine I could lose confidence in my own abilities and powers. A similar feeling I feel sometimes before an exam.
fear	emotional_events	Late one night I was pursued by gipsies who had no good intentions.
fear	emotional_events	I was crossing the street together with some colleagues of mine when I suddenly found myself almost under the wheels of a truck.
fear	emotional_events	I woke up in the middle of the night of a nightmare, I was alone, it was very quiet and very dark.
fear	emotional_events	When I was ringing up a guy who was my teen idol, and was in Auckland. I was really scared, I didn't know what to say or do.
fear	emotional_events	When I nearly caused a traffic accident with my car.
fear	emotional_events	Walking at friday night through Nijmegen, going to a pub or a disco.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear when my mother was heavily ill.
fear	emotional_events	I felt it at the same time when I felt disgust.
fear	emotional_events	I experienced this feeling when the doctors found a nodule in one of my mother's breasts. It turned out to be an occlusion resulting from continious sucking but for a few days I was not in my reason.
fear	emotional_events	I was to be given an audition to get a role. I had a competitress and I wasn't well prepared because I was ill.
fear	emotional_events	Once I was alone at home. I suddenly felt unwell and there was no one to help me and call First Aid.
fear	emotional_events	When diving deep into the sea to reach the floor I felt breathless. I was cautious but I doubted I should be able to come to the surface and inhale.
fear	emotional_events	One fears many things, for example one fears going to the dentist. but as far as I am concerned this feeling is connected with the examination session.
fear	emotional_events	Having a car accident.
fear	emotional_events	I experienced it once when we were on a drive. Our car passed by the one comming from the opposite direction at an incredibly small distance.
fear	emotional_events	I felt it when I sat for my exam in anatomy.
fear	emotional_events	A friend of mine gave birth to a child. Very dangerous delivery. I was afraid for her and for the baby.
fear	emotional_events	Few years ago my father was very ill. He stayed at a hospital for a long time. Then I experienced that terrible feeling that I might lose him.
fear	emotional_events	In the real sense of the word I experienced fear in my first months in the army. During my first night of duty. The cause for all this was a bear. I became panic sticken (may be for the first time) and even forgot that I had a gun.
shame	emotional_events	In my 20s - and was going out to dinner to celebrate a friend's birthday. Her (older - in 30s) cousin, really wanted me to get drunk cos I'd visited their (cousin & wife) place quite a bit, but had always been very careful - brought up to believe in moderation in drink (but not guilt repression etc). I mixed drinking with smoking (which I rarely did) and got drunk and had to leave the table to get sick in the loo, and later went home and was sick again; have never felt so awful in my life. And I didn't want to face or tell my other flatmates, or family.
fear	emotional_events	Can think of no time that I have felt fear.
shame	emotional_events	A daughter in court for staff pilfering, she was dressed like a \street walker\" - I had a friend form overseas with me and was á|falsely trying to impress with my family."
fear	emotional_events	I was in the Korean War. We were attacked with mortars, me and companion. We stopped the jeep and ran for cover. Fortunately neither of us was hit but we both came close to being killed.
shame	emotional_events	My son was apprehended for shoplifting at the age of 14. Because I too had been apprehended at the same age I felt the shame of not having been able to prevent my son from acting in the same way.
fear	emotional_events	While tramping on a narrow path two of us were confronted by a woman with two snarling dogs, demanding we get off the property - via a flooded river !
shame	emotional_events	A young visitor to the house stole money from an elderly visitor's purse. It wasn't noticed for some hours.
fear	emotional_events	I was attacked, standing in a doorway, by a pack of 5 dogs, alsatians and farm dogs with my escape route blocked by a shut fence.
shame	emotional_events	A good friend of mine told me in comfidence that once he had tried to commit suicide. To meet him you wouldn't think so. I told another friend of mine about this when she was feeling depressed about her twin brother's suicide. I broke a bond of confidentiality.
fear	emotional_events	When confronted and in my opinion hassled by the police.
shame	emotional_events	When you betray the trust you have been given. This is connected with copying at a class-work at school.
fear	emotional_events	When, for example, my grandfather fell seriously ill. It was necessary for him to be operated and I felt great fear of losing him because he is so dear to me.
shame	emotional_events	When, for example, I fail in my undertakings.
fear	emotional_events	The last time I felt it was when I was coming home late at night.
shame	emotional_events	I lied to my best friend and I wouldn't reform what I had done.
fear	emotional_events	Fear of the loss of a close friend, of feeling the ground slipping from under my feet.
shame	emotional_events	Exaggerating certain circumstances, wrong attitude and evaluation of these circumstances.
fear	emotional_events	If a close relative's life is in danger.
shame	emotional_events	A theft committed by me.
fear	emotional_events	Before an examination.
shame	emotional_events	I travelled on a bus and I forgot to punch the ticket. A ticket collector came in and I had to pay the fine. I did it with a feeling of shame.
fear	emotional_events	I felt a physical fear, if I can call it this way, today, in the bus where I was sitting on the first seat. While turning the driver didn't see the tram which was making a dash towards us (coming from the side I was), and whose driver intended to cross in yellow light.
shame	emotional_events	When not fulfilling any of my obligations to a person whom I respect.
fear	emotional_events	This feeling I sensed quite recently. It was arisen by the terrific thought that I might lose the man I loved !
shame	emotional_events	This happens to me when I am not prepared in a given subject.
fear	emotional_events	I had to have my tonsils out. I had been making up my mind almost for a year - I was afraid. But during the two hours in the hospital room, while I was waiting to be called for the operation I felt a real fear - of the pain, of what they were going to do to me, of the unknown.
shame	emotional_events	I talked with a man who stammered and without controlling myself, I started to talk imitating him.
fear	emotional_events	I felt this feeling when one day my landlord's cat had crept under my bed and I couldn't cope with it during an hour and a half.
shame	emotional_events	I feel shame when sometimes, (unconsciously) I behave unethically and without understanding the problems of the man I love.
fear	emotional_events	One evening I was watching the news on TV. Again they were talking about the danger of war. Suddenly I imagined what it might mean for me, for my friends, for the people close to me. I felt it a very near and possible event.
shame	emotional_events	I had not punched a ticket in the bus because I had a card. But when the ticket-collector came it turned out that I had forgotten it. The shame I felt was great though it was not done on purpose.
fear	emotional_events	I broke my knee when I was skiing over \Yastrebetz\" (a racing á|track in a Bulgarian winter resort)."
shame	emotional_events	I felt this feeling during the exam in higher mathematics.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear once, when the car in which I travelled directed towards the precipice along the road.
shame	emotional_events	When I try to lie.
fear	emotional_events	When I broke my leg I felt fear.
shame	emotional_events	When I promise to do something but I don't fulfill it.
fear	emotional_events	In a dam lake, when the water was let flow to water the plants and I and two other boys were near the water pit. We rescued ourselves only thanks to the flippers and the tyre that was with us.
shame	emotional_events	I counterfeited a mark in the school register during the lesson in gymnastics. I felt this feeling two days later when I stood face to face with my teacher, whom I highly appreciated and respected.
fear	emotional_events	I was alone in my room at the boarding house when at 12 o'clock someone knocked violently on the door.
shame	emotional_events	I had to prepare a report but I couldn't write it. I read from a book off-hand, I was quite uneasy and I felt I didn't manage.
fear	emotional_events	I was going to knock down a pedestrian with my car.
shame	emotional_events	I didn't offer my seat to a pregnant woman in the bus.
fear	emotional_events	The night before my wife had given birth to our twins. I felt fear in the hospital yard, I feared if everything was going to be in order.
shame	emotional_events	Some days ago I had a car accident. It was quite slight but through my fault. I felt strong shame because I had the spirits of a good driver.
fear	emotional_events	A fear from the loss of a close friend as a result of his behavior.
shame	emotional_events	When I don't succeed to fulfill a promise.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear when I sat for one of my exams. Though my fear was not quite justifiable, I still remember about it.
fear	emotional_events	A fear of lack of personal powers.
shame	emotional_events	At a weakness on my part.
fear	emotional_events	Because of a conflict with my parents there was a possibility to interrupt my studies.
shame	emotional_events	I feel this feeling at one and the same degree when I am not prepared to overcome certain obstacle in my life.
fear	emotional_events	Before an exam in logics.
shame	emotional_events	I was to take part in a cocktail party on the occasion of our national holiday as a servant.
fear	emotional_events	I bet that I would jump down from a window. I was sure that I would jump but before I did it I rather felt fear.
shame	emotional_events	I thought I had taken a decision but I hesitated.
fear	emotional_events	I had a car accident.
shame	emotional_events	I was nailed. I lied in connection with a book which I took from the library, because I had to keep it for a longer time.
fear	emotional_events	Before going to the dentist.
shame	emotional_events	I am ashamed when I am not ready for my seminar in internal diseases, simply because the assistant professor is a person who deserves high respect.
fear	emotional_events	When I have to go in for an exam and the examinor is a person with a whimsical character and unsteady requirements.
shame	emotional_events	I was totally unprepared for a seminar conducted by an assistant professor whom I highly respect.
fear	emotional_events	I am afraid before an exam or colloquium.
shame	emotional_events	I experienced long ago when I was sightseeing Bulgarians in a foreign language.
fear	emotional_events	One evening a friend of mine was telling a fearful story, nobody took it seriously but I got frightened.
shame	emotional_events	Once I was not ready for a seminar and I was asked to leave.
fear	emotional_events	Few days ago I really experienced fear. It was connected with unexpected actions on the part of a group of people. This evoked in me many negative emotions.
shame	emotional_events	I am ashamed of the way my father behaves with my mother and sister, and with me too.
fear	emotional_events	I was a bit frightened when it was found that there was something wrong with my liver. However it turned out that it was not serious and I need not worry.
shame	emotional_events	I was embarassed at the exam in microbiology. I was ashamed with myself - how little I knew and how good was the examinor. I rarely become ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	Fear overwhelmed me when right against the car I was in I saw another one, as if out of control of the driver.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed of the way I deceived that I could not help a friend, although it was absolutely possible for me. Nothing was revealed but I haven't called up this person since then.
fear	emotional_events	Two years ago I saw a film on the TV. Even now it makes me afraid.
shame	emotional_events	I didn't tell my parents that I was going to Sofia. I told them that I was going to a seminar. My mother knew that I was lying but she didn't stop me.
fear	emotional_events	I felt something close to that when I saw that there was a man on the terrace of the flat.
shame	emotional_events	At an exam in pharmacology I tried to prompt a coleague (she asked me something) and the assistant professor made me a sharp remark.
fear	emotional_events	I was at the seaside and my brother disappeared for a couple of hours.
shame	emotional_events	We were at a football match and when we were leaving the stadium (the stadium was packed with people) and I lost my shoe in the crowd. Our attempts to find it didn't give any result and I had to go home without one shoe. In other words to cross the whole town !
fear	emotional_events	Once as a child I dreamed of a fire. Since that time I hadn't wanted to sleep in that bed and had feared the night darkness (and so it is now).
shame	emotional_events	I was at a children's camp abroad. The people (the leaders, my coevals) were very king to us. One night we smeared our foreign friends with tooth-paste while they were sleeping and then we roused the whole camp by our shouts. Later I was so sorry. I didn't utter a word for two days, then I went to apologize.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking on the pavement when a white car rolled on it and directed towards me. I was quite near the house wall when it rolled by and hit me.
shame	emotional_events	I was examined by a teacher I greatly respected. I was well prepared on the subjects but he put some side-issues to me and I couldn't answer.
fear	emotional_events	I had worries about a certain illness.
shame	emotional_events	I feel shame when I have made a promise, I can't keep it and this has negative effects which are caused by my behavior.
fear	emotional_events	This was what I felt when my boyfriend went to Bourgas to study there. I had the feeling I would lose him. Anyway the distance Plovdiv-Bourgas seemed to me so great.
shame	emotional_events	I felt shame when I discontinued my education for eight months.
fear	emotional_events	Fear when fulfilling my obligations on my first night fatigue duty as a soldier.
shame	emotional_events	Some time ago I promised to meet an acquaintance of mine and to carry him some promised papers. I haven't done it until this day. Now I feel quite awkward when I meet him.
fear	emotional_events	Fear from the unknown. I felt fear when I sat for the entrance examinations.
shame	emotional_events	I feel ashamed when I act dishonestly toward somebody.
fear	emotional_events	Students fear many things but we seem to fear the examinations most of all. I remember I was horror stricken before my microbiology exam, because it was a decisive one.
shame	emotional_events	During our last exarcise in agricultural machines we went out in the yard to examine a row of machines. But we seemed not to have fulfilled our task well, because when our teacher came and asked me a question I was unable to answer. I felt awkward because he didn't deserve it.
fear	emotional_events	I fear before each exam.
shame	emotional_events	When I wasn't well prepared for a terminal exam and the teacher tried to give me a three by asking me some very easy questions. I burned with shame then.
fear	emotional_events	It was not long ago when I and two of friends of mine got quite drunk and one of them began to rave under the influence of the alcohol. I felt fear of what could have happened.
shame	emotional_events	Immediately after the New Year holidays I happened to visit a party where there was a lot of alcohol and I became drunk. On the next day I felt sort of ashamed when I remembered what I had said and done on the night before.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear when I fell down and broke my leg into pieces and I could not feel it at all.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed when my parents found out that I had deceived them.
fear	emotional_events	I feel fear quite often but this feeling was very strong last year when my husband was quite unexpectedly sent to the hospital.
shame	emotional_events	That was what I felt when I told my first lie and then was cought.
fear	emotional_events	It was some years ago when one evening some people came home and told us my father was badly injured in an accident.
shame	emotional_events	I have always felt ashamed for some people's behavior to their too old parents. I have felt hurt and shy when they have left them to the mercy of fate.
fear	emotional_events	When I failed my first exam at the Higher Institute.
shame	emotional_events	Once I had dinner at an elegant restaurant and I did not have enough money to pay the bill. There were a lot of people there and I felt quite awkward.
fear	emotional_events	I was terrified during an axcursion in Italy. I was lost and left alone in this unfamiliar country.
shame	emotional_events	When I first had a sexual intercourse.
fear	emotional_events	When I first sat for an entrance examination.
sadness	emotional_events	When I got separated from my first love.
shame	emotional_events	When for the first and the last time I tried to crib and the teacher was with her back to me but right when I was taking the materials out she turned round and saw me.
fear	emotional_events	Watching a horror movie with friends.
sadness	emotional_events	The funeral of a friend who was killed in a car accident. She was of my own age, there were many of my own friends present, as well as her family etc.
shame	emotional_events	Losing my temper and allowing myself to act childishly by yelling and screaming at a person who I felt had done me wrong - in effect lowering myself to their level.
fear	emotional_events	Walking home at night after university - part of the way, there are ano lights and I am walking down a thoroughfare with the thouth of no one hearing me if I have to scream.
sadness	emotional_events	When I saw my niece (5 yrs) crying in the hallway for her mother who had passed away about a month ago.
shame	emotional_events	When I found a letter addressed \To Mum\" by my son, 6 months á|later, he begged me not to sell his new shoes which he messed up á|after wearing them for the first time."
fear	emotional_events	I had to tell someone that I was interested in remaining celibate and alone. And that my spiritual master strictly prohibited sexual relations outside of marriage. This caused great fear through lack of conviction afraid to hurt someone's feelings despite my own being hurt in the process.
sadness	emotional_events	Felt sad about some street kids in QUEII square, Aotea square. Because they had been sniffing glue and some were very young. I went into the role of a performing clown.
shame	emotional_events	I felt shame at the hurt I caused to my family especially my parent father, shame of hurting people emotionally. A misconceived self-blaming that didn't do me any good. Shame at being myself as I am.
fear	emotional_events	A Maori language oral test, yeaterday - Although I had studied intensely - once in the examiners room \I blew it\" -  I was so á|nervous I couldn't reply easily - It was very important, but I á|got only blankness."
sadness	emotional_events	When my father a 4th/5th generation colonial (from Eng.) attacked me verbally about my chosen partner. A man whom he discarded because his colour skin was not white. His ultimate disgust saddned me.
shame	emotional_events	Put down by my father - at a family outing at mutual family friends dinner. Told \Not to Speak\". The attitude by him was á|negative/I was in mid 20s, I had done many things - a wide range á|of experiences. Probably greater than he."
fear	emotional_events	A truck (big one) nearly mowed me off the road (I was driving a small Lazer).
sadness	emotional_events	My dog of 16 and 1/2 years - \Lord Grey\" died in his sleep - His á|death caused me more and deeper sadness than I thought."
shame	emotional_events	I told Mr Winter of Downtown Fashion to go to - when he did not accept my Visa !
fear	emotional_events	When my mother entered surgery for a quadruple heart bypass. I felt intense fear at the time she was actually wheeled away.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died very suddenly without warning.
shame	emotional_events	When I was unable to respond to a welcome in my indigenous language of Maori at an important function where I was the only woman in the group and it was expected of me.
fear	emotional_events	I caught a huge eel on a fishing line which I had pulled into the boat. I cut the line and threw the whole lot back into the water. Later that day and about ten miles away I went swimming and someone made the comment wondering how far eels could swim, I abruptly ended swimming for fear at an unseen eel for a few days until we had left the district.
sadness	emotional_events	I had been living in an overseas city and made the decision to leave the city and come home about 12 months before I met a whole new set of friends, leaving them at the airport was sad and traumatic as they had helped me in many ways and I knew I wouldn't see many of them again.
fear	emotional_events	After I had managed to fail my first year at University I was scared as to what I was going to do with my future. I didn't want a mundane 9-5 job and yet I didn't know if I could pay my way through an unsubsidized year at university to settle down and continue my studies.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother, who has been living with us for 14 years, had a stroke and was left paralysed on one side. She has been quite close to our family and to see her suffer in this way makes me feel really sad.
shame	emotional_events	Like guilt - the most ashamed I have ever felt was when I began to feel guilty about having sex with my boyfriend when it was only \the thing to do\", and not really an act of love."
fear	emotional_events	My mother did not come home till late at night (Ages ago). Anyway if I don't know where my parents are and when they'll be back I start thinking that perhaps they have had an accident and are perhaps dead.
sadness	emotional_events	So as to be closer to the university I have left home and moved into Auckland. It now seems as if I have left home - especially my family - forever.
shame	emotional_events	NO RESPONSE.
fear	emotional_events	When I was in a car with my parents and friends and we had to back up (reverse) pass a river which when I recall it (I was only about 5 yrs) seemed we were going to fall in and drown.
sadness	emotional_events	When my sister (really my niece) died of cancer at the age of 2 yrs after I took her to the doctor at the age of 1 and he diagnosed it.
shame	emotional_events	I found I was pregnant and unmarried.
fear	emotional_events	I had this experience of fear when few people were fighting at a social one night, which one of my relative was involved. My fear was greatly for him because he was being assaulted badly.
sadness	emotional_events	This occurred when my girlfriend and I have to finish our relationship due to some circumstances between her and her family. I was really sad, hurt and couldn't really find any reason why am I still living. Is this life is all about ? This was one of few question which crept up vividly every time I thought about what had happened.
shame	emotional_events	NO RESPONSE.
fear	emotional_events	Had fear of losing husband.
sadness	emotional_events	When boyfriend could not stand up to his mother or for himself.
shame	emotional_events	When ditched - divorced by husband.
fear	emotional_events	That if ever I was really naughty I would be sent away from my Mum and Dad to another family. I was fostered from age 5 and didn't get to Mum and Dad until I was 6 and then legally adopted at 14.
sadness	emotional_events	My father died. I was away at the time and did not know until two days after.
shame	emotional_events	When my natural parents name would show up on papers and not my, what I call real name.
fear	emotional_events	When approached by a gang of youths in town at night.
sadness	emotional_events	After my father died suddenly of a heart attack.
shame	emotional_events	When I went to explain to a lecturer whom I liked that the work expected of me was not going to be in.
fear	emotional_events	My daughter was 2 yrs she went up to a colt tried to hit it. It turned on her and kicked her over the heart, sent her flying through the air. I left my mother and sister to deal to her as they are nurses. I felt I didn't want to know if she was going to die, it was just too much.
sadness	emotional_events	The saddest I've ever been was when my lover was killed, hitch-hiking to work.
shame	emotional_events	That my brother and father are into alcohol, two men with priviledge. Not using it positively.
fear	emotional_events	I walked up the main street of Auckland at 10 o'clock at night. I expected it to be very active with people, gangs, fast cars etc, thought it was actually quite quiet, though also oppressive. I walked about half a mile and bought a drink along the way.
sadness	emotional_events	Sitting in a bus, I heard behind, the voice of a girl I was friendly with. After her talking for some time with another girl I decided it wasn't her in fact that someone miming her, which it was when I finally looked. I was talking to a friend at the time.
shame	emotional_events	I criticised an action of my mother and for the first time she genuinely took notice of it. I felt shame that I was almost taking the part of a husband, or at least an equal which I should not.
fear	emotional_events	Being sexually assaulted (not rape, but passionate kissing) by a friend's father - he stopped when he was driving me home. I hadn't wanted the lift, had refused 3 times, and then felt it'd be rude to refuse again. Was really afraid of what he might do.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died - I wasn't sad so much that she'd died because she was old, but because she lived in the last few years in an old people's home and had nothing very much that was hers - no chair, or private space, and when I went to visit she would be sitting in the \lliving\" room the TV room. It was hopeless. And I á|felt awkward so I didn't go and I was sad 'cos how I couldn't."
sadness	emotional_events	When the girl whom I have lusted after expressed reciprocal feelings and then days later changed her mind.
shame	emotional_events	While intoxicated I invaded someone's (a girl's) personal space to a large extent.
fear	emotional_events	Fear of punishment for having broken an item of value to my parents.
sadness	emotional_events	The death of an animal we had reared.
shame	emotional_events	Not having owned up to the responsibility an incident where family car received minor damage.
fear	emotional_events	Riding through a bush fire on an island of Australia - on a pushbike as a little boy - all alone, lost and surrounded by smouldering wood and flame.
sadness	emotional_events	My cat was sick and I had to take him to the vet to be put down - no one else there to do it.
shame	emotional_events	When a close friend entrusted me with a secret and I let the cat out of the bag.
fear	emotional_events	Waiting for a taxi - when within 1/2 an hour two separate people challenged me to fight for no apparent reason except they were drunk.
sadness	emotional_events	My girlfriend let me down badly 3 times in one week. These instances summed up all the negative aspects of our relationship which at the time seemed doomed to fail.
shame	emotional_events	Cannot recall the emotion with any force.
fear	emotional_events	When I decided to leave my steady, secure employment to come to university. Because I didn't know if I could cope with all the requirements of study and also being older I didn't know if I would enjoy mixing with younger people, also financial insecurity.
sadness	emotional_events	Departure of a very close friend - for a long stay overseas, sharing in the sorrow of her parents who were left behind.
shame	emotional_events	My failure to provide the appropriate emotional/spiritual level to a sexual relationship that had a large physical content. Born out of inconsistency with my personal beliefs and value shame at largely using this sexual partner.
fear	emotional_events	Being harrassed for being gay; suggestions of being physically beaten - acting as informal bouncer in a gay bar.
sadness	emotional_events	Listening and watching a tape of someone with AIDS being prejudiced against at a counselling course on AIDS with 20 others.
shame	emotional_events	Watching Muldoon act as my P.M.
fear	emotional_events	Assaulted by drunken neighbour.
sadness	emotional_events	Death of brother.
shame	emotional_events	I am ashamed at myself sometimes when I am working with handicapped people and don't wish to be seen in public with them.
fear	emotional_events	I was watching a movie alone - it was a horror movie. The music was a deep pulsing type - not really music. And a light flashed on and off. It was in the complete darkness of a movie theatre that was almost empty.
sadness	emotional_events	My paternal grandmother had died. We weren't close but she was blood. I didn't cry but I was sad, partly due to her death and partly I think, due to the fact that I couldn't/didn't cry.
shame	emotional_events	My first real experience with a boy. We were alone. I was quite young and pretty naive and he was pretty crude and real, sort of, macho. It was dark, at night during the summer and we were talking.
fear	emotional_events	Being alone in Europe and having to catch a train and bus to the airport, then board the plane alone.
sadness	emotional_events	I was in a car accident on the way back from a weekend rowing regatta we'd won. 5 others were in the car. I thought I'd never be able to row again.
shame	emotional_events	Felt ashamed when in a group conversation and could not understand words or comprehend the topic of discussion.
fear	emotional_events	When I was jumped by three men in a deserted area.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother died.
shame	emotional_events	When I was twelve I was babysitting some children but I did not act very responsibly and one of them was injured.
fear	emotional_events	Haven't been frightened for ages.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad with the two situations I described before. The cat and the school. Sadness was intermingled with the other feelings.
shame	emotional_events	Haven't felt shame for ages.
fear	emotional_events	Obscene phone call where the person knew my name.
sadness	emotional_events	Enrolling at varsity, being told I couldn't get in to certain papers.
shame	emotional_events	A serious drug error while nursing that I knew I was responsible for (patient lived, no complications fortunately).
fear	emotional_events	When I was attacked by a teenage boy and had my wallet stolen.
sadness	emotional_events	When someone I was close to became a paranoid schizophrenic and I was unable to see this person because of the situation.
shame	emotional_events	When some unforgiving acquaintance dragged up an old and rather embarassing situation from my past.
fear	emotional_events	As a result of breaking the indicator light as mentioned for guilt.
sadness	emotional_events	At the death of my husband's father's mother which occurred during university examinations and therefore I was unable to attend her funeral.
shame	emotional_events	Cannot remember such a situation.
fear	emotional_events	Being driven by friend who suddenly swerved and skidded a little. It was night and on a long trip. We ended up on side of road.
sadness	emotional_events	On rising. No apparent reason.
shame	emotional_events	Felt I had not appreciated my parents enough. Regretted the problems I'd caused.
fear	emotional_events	In a flat in Sydney - rough area at home on my own - the flat had been burgled the night before and no way of locking the door.
sadness	emotional_events	When my uncle died of leukemia at age 35.
shame	emotional_events	Stealing money from my parents when I was young.
fear	emotional_events	Watched a horror movie which involved sexual attacks on women.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother was unwell and went for many cancer tests. She spent time in hospital being opened and closed many times.
shame	emotional_events	I kicked the dog outside on a cold night because he was annoying me. The next day he came down with the flu and we thought he was going to die.
fear	emotional_events	Being alone at night.
sadness	emotional_events	When grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	Being with a close friend, in the city, who was involved at the present point in time in outrageous activity.
fear	emotional_events	Stopped at lights in Mangere late one Friday night on way home from work. Alone in car when someone came up behind the car and started banging and shaking it. Light was red and had nowhere to go until light changed. When green I took off.
sadness	emotional_events	Close friend leave to go overseas for an indefinite period. Farewell scene at airport.
shame	emotional_events	When caught shoplifting and the police were called in parents also informed.
fear	emotional_events	To talk in a meeting - expound my thoughts on a subject. Fear delayed me acting to do this.
sadness	emotional_events	Watching suffering in Third World country.
shame	emotional_events	On own reading book. Recall came to mind of slight sexual exploitation of a female (years ago) i.e. had her on even for sexual motives.
fear	emotional_events	Confronted outside a party by some very nasty character - gesturing to a car full of mean-acting friends - felt in danger.
sadness	emotional_events	My cat died painfully and slowly.
shame	emotional_events	Close friend discovered I had deceived them. Felt shame at having done it and knowing that they knew.
fear	emotional_events	I was skiing alone and the mountain became covered with mist and I thought I was lost and was going to panic.
sadness	emotional_events	While still at school a friend died of cancer, after being ill for a long time, she was 17 yrs old.
shame	emotional_events	I was severely reprimanded for a trivial offence in front of members of my peer group while still at school.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to give a speech about some historical event, to an audiece of about 200 people my own age whom I did not know.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather whom I had met only once for 3 weeks, died after several months. I was really sad because he was a lovely person and I did not have the means for his company.
shame	emotional_events	The 2nd time someone I had met cared for came over to my house I was absolutely inebriated and was sick into a bucket.
fear	emotional_events	When riding in a very fastly-driven car on a lose metal road at a very late hour - no other cars on road, and driver was taking corners very sharply. I felt afraid - because if an accident happened, the area was very isolated. Also, I feared for driver, after I was dropped off - would he make it home safely.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learned that my former boyfriend had become engaged - although I was glad that he had found what he wanted, I was very sad at my own personal loss, since I had always hoped we might one day reconcile.
shame	emotional_events	When dropping a carton of boiling soup onto a co-worker's leg - causing great pain, and for me, severe embarassment at my own ineptitude, and shame that another person suffered as a result.
fear	emotional_events	A friend (female) and I were on holiday on Great Barrier Island by ourselves. One night we were nearly raped by about 20 locals - they came to our bach and tried to break the doors down. All of them were stoned or drunk and we hid under the bunks and were totally terrified. Eventually these guys gave up and went looking for us on the beach. We escaped and slept in the bush for 2 nights.
sadness	emotional_events	This sounds really predictable and usual but it was absolutely heart-rending at the time. My first lover (I was 15) just rang up one day and announced that he had found another woman. I never saw him again and it hurt because I was positive that it was \TRUE LOVE\" !!"
shame	emotional_events	When I was 15 my mother discovered various items in my room which 15 year olds aren't usually expected to have - mainly alcohol, marijuana and contraceptives !
fear	emotional_events	Skiing down a very icy slope, very fast in white-out conditions. Out of control with no idea of what I was doing or where I was heading.
sadness	emotional_events	I found a baby opposum on the road and took it home and cared for it for a week. It had to be force-fed and carried in a fur pouch under my jersey. My father had the vet put it to sleep as he said they carried diseases.
shame	emotional_events	I told my primary teacher I hadn't done my homework as my mother was in a car accident. My teacher rang that night to see how my mother was - she was fine i.e. no accident !
fear	emotional_events	When I was very young and we moved as a family to Auckland from Wellington, this meant new school and friends (etc.).
sadness	emotional_events	When I got into an argument with someone and was very abusive, but they were a close friend and I later regretted it.
shame	emotional_events	When I had come home drunk the day after a party, I felt very ashamed in front of my parents.
fear	emotional_events	As a passenger in a vehicle travelling from the steep side of Arthur's Pass in the middle of a sleet-storm, icy roads, sheer chasms to one side, sheer face to the other.
sadness	emotional_events	A) A documentary in which baby fur seals were being clubbed/spiked to death by Canadian seal-hunters. Brutally graphic. B) Description of a disfigured orphaned child in Hiroshima calling for her mother.
shame	emotional_events	Breaking an implicit promise.
fear	emotional_events	I imagined I heard footsteps up the hall while sleeping in bed one night by myself in the house.
sadness	emotional_events	My father recently having a heart attack - spending a few months in hospital.
shame	emotional_events	Sleeping with a girl on a Saturday night and then not contacting her in later days.
fear	emotional_events	Held under water by a large wave and thought I was drowning.
sadness	emotional_events	Caused a family disturbance.
shame	emotional_events	When I considered writing a load of crap for this emotion.
fear	emotional_events	Mugged while on holiday in the U.S.A.
sadness	emotional_events	Social situation - at the pub - a close friend of 2 years told the group around us of advances I had made.
shame	emotional_events	My father died 4 years ago, 18 months after my mother died. I feld my sister was responsible for his death, in that she \hadn't á|loved him\". I felt ashamed for myself, and for my family."
fear	emotional_events	Canoeing across harbour in winds - 20 knots and rising seas.
sadness	emotional_events	Hearing of the death of a friend who had been skiing.
shame	emotional_events	Being caught by parents in a compromising situation with girlfriend.
fear	emotional_events	Almost crashing into the back of a car while driving along the motorway on my motorcycle.
sadness	emotional_events	A person I really like left for overseas for a few months, I had hoped to go out with her soon.
shame	emotional_events	I passed on some gossip that was untrue and cause two friends to have a fight who were already experiencing difficulties with each other.
fear	emotional_events	I went to see a movie and I went with a friend, it was really frightening and it made me stop and think about the world around me and what it is really like out there. I was frightened all that night.
sadness	emotional_events	When a very close friend of mine went into hospital for a major operation and I couldn't see her for a while as I was not a relative she had no relatives in N.Z.
shame	emotional_events	When I let my girlfriend use my essay to help her to write hers and the tutor found them alike.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking home one night (after getting a bus to my town) when I was confronted by a group of males (about 6), they would not let me pass - they made comments etc. - I crossed the road and hurried home.
sadness	emotional_events	At the beginning of the year I moved to a new city - I felt sad as I had to leave many friends and family members behind.
shame	emotional_events	I was amongst a group of people talking about how the Maori people were stirrers and causing trouble in our country. I felt shame to be a pakeha when other pakehas had such narrow conservative views.
fear	emotional_events	Thinking that I had been seen smoking at school by a teacher - waiting to be summoned to the headmaster's office.
sadness	emotional_events	At my grandfather's funeral - My grandparents virtually raised me as my mother was a solo-parent and had to work.
shame	emotional_events	I ate very fattening food in front of my boyfriend who would like me to lose weight. I am supposedly pursuing a modelling career but first I must lose weight. I had been trying to diet.
fear	emotional_events	A large german shepherd dog ran and barked at me (he didn't bite fortunately).
sadness	emotional_events	When I was told a friend's baby had been born with only partial sight. This was her first child and she was not young (the mother that is).
shame	emotional_events	When I as a Pakeha (white) new Zealander, was just as racially prejudiced as other people whom I had condemned.
fear	emotional_events	I was hitchhiking and was picked up by a stranger he drove into the woods and wanted to make love with me, I refused and escaped from the car. When walking in the wood and hearing the car I was afraid.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died. She stayed with us until I had the age of 10. When she died I was 13 and I remember the moment after the funeral: I sat on the table and cried.
shame	emotional_events	Once in a public ladies room, I opened the door of a cubicle that was taken, although it was not locked.
fear	emotional_events	Sleeping alone in a tent, while hearing several noises such as rustling etc, I am afraid that there are people who are up to no good.
sadness	emotional_events	When the relationship with my girlfriend broke up.
shame	emotional_events	Some weeks ago I experienced a day that everything went wrong I broke several things I felt very ashamed for I am not a sloven.
fear	emotional_events	At the age of 12 years I always had to take care of my little brother and sister I never could sleep then. I always imagined creepy men sneaking into our house.
sadness	emotional_events	It was a complex situation concerning a relationship with a boyfriend, I had broken the relationship for some reasons. Meanwhile, as I felt it, I had most sorrow.
shame	emotional_events	I saw a terrible accident happen and I laughed a lot of the fright and because I was nervous.
fear	emotional_events	I have a fobic anxiety for elevators. This anxiety is worst at the moment when the doors have to open. I have it often in the elevator at our university.
sadness	emotional_events	My boyfriend decided to make an end to our relationship.
shame	emotional_events	When I am in an auditorium with people and I ask a silly question so that everyone starts to laugh.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid when my first boyfriend threatened to make an end to our relationship because he didn't love me enough while I loved him very much.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when my first boyfriend finished our relationship.
shame	emotional_events	I felt shame when I didn't study enough for my exams and as a result I failed. I then invented idle stories to talk it good for myself and the others.
fear	emotional_events	When I was sitting in a car next to a man who was masturbating.
sadness	emotional_events	Tonight in bed when I realised how bad my relationship with my friend was.
shame	emotional_events	When I made an end on a relationship after three years.
fear	emotional_events	When my cat ran under a car and came home wounded. He could hardly walk. I didn't dare to go to a veterinarian because I was afraid he would kill him.
sadness	emotional_events	Losing my girlfriend who made an end to our relationship. By this I lost an important source of support, certainty and joyful moments. I cried very intensly when that happened.
shame	emotional_events	During carnaval I danced for a few minutes normally I don't dance because I am rigid in my moving around during a dance, I stopped very soon.
fear	emotional_events	When I went out with my dog in a forest late at night when we were on a camping.
fear	emotional_events	When I entered the operation theatre and underwent a difficult operation.
sadness	emotional_events	When they gave away my dog to other people without my knowledge.
shame	emotional_events	At the airport, eighty beer cans that I was carrying in a bag spread all around while I was going through the metal detector.
fear	emotional_events	On the scenic railway at the fairground.
sadness	emotional_events	[ The same as in guilt.]
fear	emotional_events	When I was a child, one day, I was going home late at night and I did not notice an uncovered man hole and fell in it.  I was in there for several minutes.
sadness	emotional_events	The day I left my first girlfriend.
shame	emotional_events	When I got my fingers stuck in one of the side holes of the door, in the tube.
fear	emotional_events	I found myself involved in a fight in which a person died and I had to intervene with some risk.
sadness	emotional_events	I was forced to leave an unforgettable friend.
shame	emotional_events	A mishap suffered on misinterpreting a girl's proposition.
fear	emotional_events	Before I had a tooth pulled out.  I was very upset and ill.
sadness	emotional_events	When my dog died.  I had reared it for nearly three years.  It had been ill for several days and had not eaten anything.  One morning I found it dead.
shame	emotional_events	I fell down in the bus when it braked suddenly and everybody started looking at me.
shame	emotional_events	I cannot remember a situation in which I felt ashamed. I was eating with some people and a little boy I took care of. I warned him often not to knock down his glass of mild. When I took out his chair I knocked down my own glass.
fear	emotional_events	Together with a little brother I biked on a lonely road in the Polder. Then we were annoyed by a boy on a motorbike: he took over, stopped, took over, etc. Then we saw he had something in his hand, we turned until we came across a man, who accompanied us.
sadness	emotional_events	I partly colored my hair black. My mother didn't like it and reproached me to be a \subversive element\". Later on she stated á|that this was due to my friends. As I see it, this all resulted á|from colouring my hair."
shame	emotional_events	I had subscribed for this test. We were informed by our secretary where the test took place. We went over there and thought there was a course. So we went back again I felt ashamed that the secretary again should see me.
fear	emotional_events	My father was very angry with me, and I locked me up in the shower. Then my father knocked his fist through the door, I was scared to death.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died, her life was heavy and her last hours were terrible.
shame	emotional_events	We had arranged a beach party with 20 people. There my father got drunk I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I am thinking about death, the eternal of it, the unknown, the sense of being here. Often, laying in bed in the dark and quiet, the fear makes me feel dizzy.
sadness	emotional_events	I had to leave Den Helder and all friends and acquaintences, after having spend two weeks there with my friends.
shame	emotional_events	When I have suffered a terrible fit of eating, that frequently occurs. Then I eat everything, I act like a glutton I eat big amounts of food, sometimes even half a loaf.
fear	emotional_events	When the relationship with my first girlfriend broke up and I realized it too late.
sadness	emotional_events	When my last relation broke up.
shame	emotional_events	When I forgot the birthday of my best friend and I innocently came to visit her one week later.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking in the wood at night with my boyfriend. Very romantic. Suddenly I heard a car driving very slowly with the lights out, it looked as if they were looking for something.
sadness	emotional_events	My sister was in coma for 3 months (due to a train accident). Now her brainfunctions are disturbed. She will never be able to walk and she can hardly talk.
shame	emotional_events	I talk too much, cannot keep things secret. I promised a friend not to tell something to anybody. Neverthless, I did, and she got informed about it. I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	Once sitting in the cinema, I became very anxious (watching a \cold\" film). I do not know the reason."
sadness	emotional_events	My mother was stuck by an apoplectic fit, was hemi-paralyzed and suffered an aphasia.
shame	emotional_events	I wrote a letter to my father to ventilate my bottled up feelings. Afterwards I thought it was too negative.
fear	emotional_events	On a holiday in France I made a walk in the woods all alone and very relaxed. Then a motorbike took me over and I saw the man watching all the time. Suddenly the man stood behing me and I ran away fast.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when my boyfriend wanted to break our relationship. Our relationship lasted two years, we shared everything and all this was finished.
shame	emotional_events	When I was 10 years old I stained our bench with a fountain-pen, I tried to twin the cushions, but then there were colour nuances. Then my mother catched me, she saw it and became very angry.
fear	emotional_events	I went to the ballet lessons with a little friend in the dark. On a very quiet place a boy approached us from behind and asked at what time the lesson would be finished. I gave him an avoiding answer, he took me up and wanted to run away with me.
sadness	emotional_events	My boyfriend with whom I had a longlasting relationship, fell in love with another girl, then he asked me something which implied that he loved that girl more than he loved me.
shame	emotional_events	A friend catched me while masturbating. I am not fully sure whether she saw it or not.
fear	emotional_events	When I had left my home, my father, under false pretences, got me in his car and drove home where we were all alone. He was seethed with rage because I withrew from his authority. He hit me, kicked me and threatened me.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when I left home because I could not stand it any longer. I do not regret it, but I missed my little sister very much (and she missed me). These feelings wear off over time.
shame	emotional_events	When my mother found a leaf of my diary where I had written about my mother's lack of education, especially her poor arithmetical insight.
fear	emotional_events	When I was six years old we were on holiday in France. There was very heavy weather then.
sadness	emotional_events	The disease and subsequent death of a close acquaintance. Sadness was accompanied with feelings of powerlessness (I also experienced sadness in the situation described under guilt).
shame	emotional_events	Making bloopers: e.g. telling something negative about a certain person, while that person is standing besides you and hears everything.
fear	emotional_events	Fear to come and live in Nijmegen.
sadness	emotional_events	When a friend died.
shame	emotional_events	When I embarrassed a friend by asking him aloud if a certain person was \the source of gossip\" he told me about, while that á|person was also present."
fear	emotional_events	Just before I started my study I had to move, I was very afraid to be left alone and that I could not manage it.
sadness	emotional_events	When a close friend took leave of me, because she went to Israel for one year.
shame	emotional_events	I stayed at home for a period because I felt depressive and I neglected my study when people adked me, I told them that I had freeterm and studied hard. I felt ashamed for my behavior and lies.
fear	emotional_events	In college, I started a discussion with the teacher referring to a question I posed. I felt very unsure and I was afraid to fail.
sadness	emotional_events	I was together with my family one night, a few days after my father had died, during that conversation I expressed my displeasure because nobody understands me.
shame	emotional_events	I was jerking me off in my bedroom, when suddenly, my mother came in. She looked at me and immediately left the room.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking alone in the street late at night (2.30 am). It was very quiet. Then a man approached me and said \Hello\"."
sadness	emotional_events	When a friend, after being free of drugs for half a year, started using them again.á
sadness	emotional_events	Watching a football game. This remindes me of the time when my father was still alive and when we watched football games on TV together.
shame	emotional_events	Asking someone to give me back the money I once lend him because I needed it myself.
fear	emotional_events	One night at three o'clock I was followed by a cardriver, who tried to molest me.
sadness	emotional_events	A younger brother of a good friend of mine died (asthma).
shame	emotional_events	I made a joke about the rat of a boy. I compared his rat with a sausage. I told the boy he had a delicious sausage.
fear	emotional_events	I had a dream about my fiancTe leaving me and making an end to our relation.
sadness	emotional_events	During the funeral of my grandmother, when I saw my mother and other family members crying.
shame	emotional_events	My father was very angry with another man in the presence of my friends.
fear	emotional_events	I was raped by a friend.
sadness	emotional_events	My father suddenly fell ill. He stayed for 3 months in the hospital: the last month on intensive care of the Academic Hospital, then he died.
shame	emotional_events	After having failed my driving test.
fear	emotional_events	Once, late at night, I was biking home and overtook a man. He said to me \Hello darling\" I was terrified and imagined the á|wildest scenes."
sadness	emotional_events	When I caused much pain and sorrow to my boyfriend by finishing our relationship.
shame	emotional_events	When I imitated a teacher behind his back - walking very silly.
fear	emotional_events	As a child I suffered of nightmares. Even since than, I have never been so anxious and fearful.
sadness	emotional_events	I was in a hopeless situation in a dirty place. No study, no work, only loneliness.
shame	emotional_events	Recently, I left my bag in the car of someone who picked me up while hitch-hiking. I spent some effort to find out where he lived (I succeeded).
fear	emotional_events	When my father suffered with dizziness. He had to be hospitalized, because the physician didn't know what was wrong. Because his stools were black, I thought it could be cancer.
sadness	emotional_events	When it suddenly appeared that our dog was dangerously ill and probably would die. We had not expected this because he was always very healthy. Fortunately he survived because we, in turn, gave him medicines during the night.
shame	emotional_events	When I arrived too late at a meeting of mentor (the night before the introduction of novices on the University start).
fear	emotional_events	I lived in a student-house, where you shared the lavatory and shower with a fellow student. the shower cubicle formed the connection between both appartments. My neighbour very often was drunk and aggressive. One night, I was afraid that he would enter my room.
sadness	emotional_events	I suffer form a disease of my muscles. However, I cannot talk about it and my feelings, the consequence with my parents. They try to repress it.
shame	emotional_events	Going out for dinner, or during one ice-cream and four spoons.
fear	emotional_events	When armed robbers broke into our house at night.
sadness	emotional_events	When I failed the grade seven examination.
shame	emotional_events	When I tried to steal a book from the bookshop and was caught.
fear	emotional_events	When I had gone for a boxing tournament which ended at 2 o'clock in the morning.  I was alone on my way back, and I could hear the barking of the dogs, the nocturnal animals and the sound of my     own footsteps.  There had been a rumour  circulating that there were ghosts in that area.
sadness	emotional_events	When my father passed away in 1978.  I was left alone with my mother who was very sick so I had to go and live with my aunt, who is very short tempered, till my mother was discharged from the hospital.
fear	emotional_events	I was in form five at the boarding school and my friends and I had gone drinknig beer in the nearby village.  And we were caught red handed there by a form master.
sadness	emotional_events	My elder brother had been expelled from college and he was so frustated that he attempted suicide - he drank bottle fragments.  I was very sad when I learnt this.
shame	emotional_events	It was during a school holiday - I was found necking a girl in my room by my father.
fear	emotional_events	A close relative of mine died in a serious car accident.  I was one of the first two people to see the corpse and I had to do it.  Before going in to see it I was afraid as it was the first time that I was seeing a corpse.
sadness	emotional_events	When a close relative of mine passed away, it was the first time that someone so close to me had died.
shame	emotional_events	While watching a religious film, I got very excited and made a number of comments which were reproached to me by an elderly person who respected me.
fear	emotional_events	Before one of my final exams of the third year - natural sciences.
sadness	emotional_events	When an uncle of mine, who was close to me, passed away after having had a stroke, before his first daughter could be named.
shame	emotional_events	When I could not hold my bladder while making a telephone call and ended up wetting myself.
sadness	emotional_events	My fiancT left me for my best friend.
shame	emotional_events	On New Years eve I drank too much alcohol, so much that I had to vomit in the presence of other people.
fear	emotional_events	I was sexually assaulted one night by a stranger.
sadness	emotional_events	The dying of a close member of the family.
shame	emotional_events	A much older man took advantage of me during my childhood (four to eight years of age).
fear	emotional_events	When a man rang the doorbell and wanted to enter the house with violence. I was alone at home that moment.
sadness	emotional_events	I had to terminate a training because I wasn't suited for it. I was very sad about this, because I very much wanted to finish that training.
shame	emotional_events	I tried to swindle a jeweller because my watch was broken and I wanted to have it repaired it was a pity but they detected it.
fear	emotional_events	I wanted to get in contact with a girl I loved, but I was afraid she would refuse me.
sadness	emotional_events	Disappointed love. The girl made an end to our relationship while I thought she was in love with me.
shame	emotional_events	I thought of myself as being clumsy when I made love for the first time with a girl.
fear	emotional_events	Sitting alone in a quiet room, concetrating on things happening around you. Thoughts come into my mind which make me afraid.
sadness	emotional_events	I have high expectations for my future but if I pursue the subject in this manner I will not attain this.
shame	emotional_events	A girl asked me why I didn't dance. I told her I was ashamed to dance. I felt myself ashamed having to tell her this.
fear	emotional_events	During a football game I made an offence towards an acquaintance. Later on this acquaintance also tackeled me and the game became very rude.
anger	emotional_events	I work at a petrol station. When there is a foreigner who wants petrol my collegues treat him very impolite.
sadness	emotional_events	An uncle of mine who just retired, having worked hard all his life, got a cerebral hemorrhage.
shame	emotional_events	When I went to a disco with a friend I started behaving badly embarrassing him without reason.
fear	emotional_events	When I stayed alone in a house in Great Brittain and there was a lot of rumour in the newspaper about a murderer still being free.
anger	emotional_events	The stories about the way my grandmother treated my mother.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother was proved to suffer from a very serious disease.
shame	emotional_events	I omitted to do a favor to a friend, while he was very much in need for help.
fear	emotional_events	The only event I can remember is having a nightmare when I was very young (3 years old) I dreamt about a machine which was going to crush me.
anger	emotional_events	I am usually angry at myself. This happens often. For instace when I want to pet without falling in love and it soon proves that I have fallen in love with him.
sadness	emotional_events	Losing a boyfriend for the second time to my friend. He fell in love with her. The same thing happened a few months earlier with another boyfriend.
shame	emotional_events	When I am angry at someone without a good reason. Later on it proves that he didn't do anything wrong.
fear	emotional_events	DO NOT REMEMBER.
anger	emotional_events	After a hard day at the university I also had to make dinner that evening. It failed because of a frying pan which broke.
sadness	emotional_events	When my father had a cerebral hemorrhage.
shame	emotional_events	During a party I overheard a conversation about china. When I wanted to give my opinion one of the people came out to be Chinese and his opinion was right of course.
fear	emotional_events	Standing in a crowed shop or in a closed room with too much people in it. This gives me a fearful experience.
anger	emotional_events	My older brother who gives me unwanted advices about problems in my relationship with my girlfriend.
sadness	emotional_events	My girlfriend left the house in which we lived together a few months ago. This made me very sad.
shame	emotional_events	Making an unexpected talk with a professor in the canteen. This made me shy.
fear	emotional_events	I lived alone in a repulsive area in the city of Rotterdam. I was annoyed, heard a lot of Burglary and assaults. Especially in the evening and the night I frequently felt anxious.
anger	emotional_events	Being treated unfairly and being hurt by someone I love.
sadness	emotional_events	When I finished a relation after four years, leading to much sorrow for the other one and myself (\although it was the best á|solution\")."
shame	emotional_events	When coming up for trial because of shop lifting.
fear	emotional_events	One night I had to bike home all alone after a party. Then I found out that I was pursued by a man in a car.
anger	emotional_events	I had a quarrel with my father, because I was of the opinion that he decided in an authoritarian way which TV program we should watch. I became very angry and started throwing things through the room.
sadness	emotional_events	My boyfriend finished our relationship when I started studying psychology in Nijegen, because then we would not be able to meet frequently anymore.
shame	emotional_events	I was catched when, as a little girl, I played tricks. I was very startled then and wet my pants.
fear	emotional_events	Once late at night (around midnight) a person asked me to give him a lift. He suddenly tried to attack me but I could escape. After this he followed me for a little while.
anger	emotional_events	There was a lot of irritation between me and a person who lives in the same house where I live. Suddenly it became too much for me and I accused him of several things.
sadness	emotional_events	The end of a relationship (after 4 years) by doing this I hurt the other person very much.
shame	emotional_events	I am troubled by hair growing in my neck. I was troubled by this for a long time and was much ashamed when someone brought his/her hands close to my face.
fear	emotional_events	When I thought the house was on fire at night.
anger	emotional_events	When I was at an official meeting I asked a question to a person. His response was not directed at me but at the chairman.
sadness	emotional_events	When the mother of a good friend of mine died.
shame	emotional_events	I was very angry at someone.
fear	emotional_events	When a good friend of mine behaved in a very cool manner to me for a very long time.
anger	emotional_events	I was in the library of medical psychology and walked into the wrong direction. A man who came out of a room threated me very denigrating and I became very angry in a resisting manner.
sadness	emotional_events	A good friend of mine died. During the funeral I felt an intense feeling of sadness.
shame	emotional_events	At Christmas night there was a good movie on television which I wanted to see for years. I was whining about it till someone told me it was very childish. Then I felt shame.
fear	emotional_events	When going out I am threatened regularly by two punk-girls.
anger	emotional_events	A friend started to shout at me. He called me an old frump.
sadness	emotional_events	My relationship with a boyfriend was finished and I didn't succeed a years-course.
shame	emotional_events	After a party in which I made love with a boy in public. Later on I heard that others were talking about me and called me a slut.
fear	emotional_events	A terrible cloud-burst started when we were camping in a tent on a great bald field.
anger	emotional_events	Seeing for the first time pictures about the so called \treatment\" of Jewish people in Nazi-Germany during World War II."
sadness	emotional_events	The death of my mother-in-law after a long sick-bed. at the moment of dying I was with her.
shame	emotional_events	I was drinking a glass of wine and eating something when there suddenly appeared pictures about the famine in some parts of Africa.
fear	emotional_events	The same situation as with sadness. I was afraid about what my parents would further do to distroy my relationship.
anger	emotional_events	Once again my parents distroyed a relationship.
sadness	emotional_events	I had this feeling when my parents distroyed a relationship with a boy because they thought he was bad and irresponsible.
sadness	emotional_events	A sudden end to the relationship with my first girlfriend.
shame	emotional_events	In an important situation for me, my father behaved inadequately.
fear	emotional_events	When a good friend of me told me one evening that she didn't want to live anymore.
anger	emotional_events	I felt anger when at the end of a telephone call, a good friend told me that she would go to travel next year with another good friend. We couldn't talk this out.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I had to leave persons with whom I had a very intense relationship I also had to leave the environment which was part of this.
shame	emotional_events	I made a very insulting remark against a person whom I care for very much. This event was caused by a third person who didn't like the person I insulted.
fear	emotional_events	When I walk through streets late at night. This is because I and my friends were attacked one night without any reason for it.
anger	emotional_events	When I got the feeling that I had to do all the housekeeping while my boyfriend didn't do anything. This happened in a period of exams when I had to study very hard.
sadness	emotional_events	When my best friend got a boyfriend. Because of this a relationship of ten years was finished abruptely.
shame	emotional_events	In my opinion guilt is a feeling which goes together with shame. Here then I refer to the situation of guilt.
fear	emotional_events	I was living in rooms in a very lonely, quiet neigbourhood. During the night it was very silent and this frightened me. The fact of being alone in that house frightened me.
anger	emotional_events	We had to move to a very different city because the company where my father worked also moved to that place. It was very difficult for me to make new friends than.
sadness	emotional_events	A very close friend of mine died. I read it in the newspaper. I didn't know what to do and thought about it the whole day.
shame	emotional_events	A teacher spent a lot of time helping me without wanting to be paid for it. For the exam I didn't got a good grade and I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I was raped once when I went through a dark alley at the back of our house. The man pushed me in the bushes. I fought back and succeeded to escape.
anger	emotional_events	I was very angry at my father when he didn't give me as much money as my brother to use for studying. Once again my brother was better off then me.
sadness	emotional_events	When my gradmother died.  I felt very sad then ... The feeling started to be worse after a while.
shame	emotional_events	When I didn't meet an appointment I had made. The person phoned me but I thought of something (I told I was ill) so that I didn't have to go.
fear	emotional_events	When I slept for the first time all alone in the house where I live now. A man phoned me at 2.00 am. He wanted something from me. I was afraid.
anger	emotional_events	My boyfriend told me that I had very high demands towards him. In my opinion this was wrong.
sadness	emotional_events	I hadn't been at my parent's place for a long time. When I went to visit them I had high expectations, but when I was there it was very different from what I expected.
shame	emotional_events	I was eating in a very nice restaurant, when the servant asked whether I liked the food I told him that I liked it but that there was one thing which wasn't so good. The servant than worked very hard to make it good.
fear	emotional_events	When a car ran into me. The moment that I felt on the street I thought \This is my end, I am going to die\"."
anger	emotional_events	When our cat was killed in a car-accident I was very angry at the driver of the car because he didn't take enough care.
sadness	emotional_events	There is a boy who I love very much. I asked him to have dinner with me, but he refused I don't know why he didn't go with me, but I felt very lonely.
shame	emotional_events	During my Highschool time I was chairman of the student's comitee. In this function I once had to make a speech to a large audience and I was very nervous. After three sentences I forgot my text.
fear	emotional_events	When I slipped on a glazed frost road and a car almost ran into me.
anger	emotional_events	When people without my permission pry in my belongings and take things out of it.
sadness	emotional_events	When I noticed that my parents were not in such a prosperity as most people in my surroundings.
shame	emotional_events	When I went for the first time in my life to a nudist-beach.
fear	emotional_events	I had an appointment with a good friend. He came 3 hours later than we agreed upon. During the last hour of waiting I was afraid something might had happened, because usally he is in time.
anger	emotional_events	I worked together with another student on a computer-assignment. She didn't do her best and didn't prepare herself for it. She expected me to explain it to her.
sadness	emotional_events	I had a quarrel with a good friend about the fact that I didn't pay her a visit when she expected me to come. Hereafter I was very sad because it became a real quarrel.
shame	emotional_events	I forgot something I agreed upon with a good friend.
fear	emotional_events	When I was 12 years old I frequently was pursued by others and got sound thrashes.
anger	emotional_events	My girlfriend one day went out and promised to be back at 6.00 pm however she first arrived at 10.00 pm, without a message (we had to go out that evening).
sadness	emotional_events	When my girlfriend decided to finish our relation.
shame	emotional_events	When I overslept for the second time on the day I had an examination.
fear	emotional_events	When biking and I felt very bad (problems with heart and respiration).
anger	emotional_events	When a discussion resulted in an insult, which in my opinion, was not justified.
sadness	emotional_events	When I realized that it did not make much sense to start a relationship with a girl who was not very constructive to establish a firm relationship.
shame	emotional_events	When I gave water to the plants of a friend. Then one plant fell over, and a little statue broke. I, of course, had to tell him everything.
fear	emotional_events	I went to the apartment of my boyfriend and saw some people before his door. I thought that something had happened.
anger	emotional_events	My father called me (behind my mother's back) and told me that my mother disapproved my behavior in the weekend. However, he didn't tell me the details and left me with unanswered questions.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very lonely, was very dissatisfied with myself when I realised that I could feel very jealous of other women because of my boyfriend.
shame	emotional_events	When I do not succeed in making myself clear to other people. When they do not understand what I say.
fear	emotional_events	I was very startled when, at night at 2.00 am, a boy approached me and yelled \I fuck you\", then however he stopped and laughed at á|me."
anger	emotional_events	When someone does not listen to me after having asked me to repeat what I said. This happened more than one time with the same person.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when I heard that a friend had committed suicide.
shame	emotional_events	When I made acquaintance with the parents of my boyfriend for the first time. They spoke Limburgian (a dutch dialect) and one of my first remarks was that I disliked Limburgian dialect.
fear	emotional_events	I was testing my new roller skates in the street, suddenly a dog ran barking in my direction, very threatening. I was very startled and terribly upset.
anger	emotional_events	Out on a weekend with a group of people, everybody felt irritated because at night the music didn't stop in time. And at breakfast my boyfriend ran away because we didn't agree with him. I felt angry.
sadness	emotional_events	Recently I felt very sad without any reason. It lasted for a few days. There was nothing I liked in that period.
shame	emotional_events	I cried for 3 hours because I felt very miserable. Then I called my boyfriend and he said lovely things to me. After this feeling disappeared I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	The weather is very bad (fog and slipperiness) the newcast reports many traffic accidents and my boyfriend is driving home and still has 60 kilometers to go.
anger	emotional_events	Someone told me that he would stay at my home for one night. Therefore I made big efforts to make everything ok (food). One day before he cancelled the appointment because he had to go to church with his parents.
sadness	emotional_events	We had to take our cat to the vet for mercy killing (an injection).
shame	emotional_events	A girl in our class was nicknamed \fatsy\". Later, I heard that á|she suffered from diabetes mellitus."
fear	emotional_events	In the morning just before going to the dentist.
anger	emotional_events	When a very close friend with whom I have a very intimate and bodily relationship (he had a girlfriend) started to avoid me and didn't want to talk to me any more.
sadness	emotional_events	When a good friend with whom I had an intimate relationship made clear that he didn't want to continue in the same way. He choose his girlfriend (also a friend of mine).
shame	emotional_events	I had a short lasting sexual relationship with someone I didn't love.
fear	emotional_events	When going out in the weekend I have to bike 5 kilometers through lonely and dark polders, then I always have terrifying fantasies.
anger	emotional_events	I made an appointment with a friend to drink coffee togehter. However, for the third time in that week she arrived an hour too late.
sadness	emotional_events	My dear hamster (called Hannes) died at the age of 2 and 1/2 years. His shape forced me to mercy killing (an injection).
shame	emotional_events	We had made an appointment to complete together a piece of work. It appeared that I was the only one who hadn't prepared anything.
fear	emotional_events	I had to call someone and make an appointment for a conversation. I was very afraid to fail.
anger	emotional_events	When, after having cleaned up the kitchen, two hours later I saw that there was a big mess. It irritated me very much.
sadness	emotional_events	One night I was called and told that the father of a close friend died. When I visited my friend at home and when attending the funeral I felt very sad.
shame	emotional_events	Once by coincidence I clutched a stranger (in a rather intimate way), thinking it was my boyfriend. When by hindsight I feel ashamed when thinking about it.
fear	emotional_events	When my mother threatened me with thrushing me of the stairs, when I once more should make a comment.
anger	emotional_events	When being made look a fool by the teacher in front of the class during a turn.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother unjustly became very angry with me and sent me to my room while my father explained that the way she saw things was not correct. I had done things with the best intentions.
shame	emotional_events	A friend came for dinner with me at home. His parents are ordinary people. My mother, however, used the very expensive porcelain dinner-service and the silver cutlery. I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	My friend and I planned to search for old documents and utensils in the cellar. It was very late at night when we arrived in the cellar. He indicated the place where the police (40 years ago) found two dead bodies. I got very scared when he told me this story.
fear	emotional_events	When I went up the stairs in a high, dark house full of shadows, passed a door and had the feeling that someone or something was behind me, although I knew I was alone.
anger	emotional_events	A friend told me it would be better for me not to be on familiar terms with another friend, although, in my opinion he had no reason to say such things. He only said so hoping that I would search support from him (that, however, was not necessary).
sadness	emotional_events	I had a good relationship with two friends. Once without reason, they clearly showed that they thought I was naive, dull and unable to take care for myself, while I expostulated that I could manage things.
shame	emotional_events	When I state things with great positiveness and try to convince others, and it appears that my statement is not right.
fear	emotional_events	My grandmother several times has been struck by cerebral hemorrhages. Until now she recovered well each time, but there is always the threat to loose her.
anger	emotional_events	I had made an appointment with three friends. We had to go out together. When I arrived at the place, the other persons weren't there. I became very angry because I thought they were gone without me. That, however, didn't appear to be the case.
sadness	emotional_events	I finished the relationship with my boyfriend, after having felt myself very unhappy for a long time.
shame	emotional_events	I was taking a shower in a cubicle in France. Then I discovered that a few children were loking at me from the adjacent cubicle.
fear	emotional_events	When I get into the tube or the train without paying for the ticket.
anger	emotional_events	A class-mate urged me to carry out a particular protest along with him, and when the time came this fellow drew back while I had to face the situation.
sadness	emotional_events	When I failed the entrance exam to IMEC.
shame	emotional_events	When I was a child my parents caught me with a pornographic magazine.
shame	emotional_events	When I wore a grotesque figure hanging down my back.
fear	emotional_events	When I was a child I hid under the sheets out of fear of darkness.
anger	emotional_events	When I first saw a person begging.
sadness	emotional_events	When my basket ball team lost the qualification at a final.
shame	emotional_events	When a person whom I do not want to see is continously present.
fear	emotional_events	When I was very young, one day, I was in the street with my father and brother.   While my father was talking to some friends, I saw a dog and began to pat it.  My father told me sharply to stop doing it because the dog had mange.  Then my brother told me that I would die and I could not stop crying after this.
anger	emotional_events	We hitch hiked our way back from a town rather drunk.  We were dropped in another town which was unknown to us.  I needed to urinate, so I did it on a wall which turned out to belong to the military headquarters.  They arrested me and made me pay a fine of 500 pts.  We had to go home on foot (6 km) since it was too late for anyone to give us a lift.
sadness	emotional_events	I was to meet a girl in a discotheque.  She was very pretty and I was very happy.  But she did not turn up.  Thank God, there were some other friends there and I was able to have a more or less good time.
shame	emotional_events	I met a friend in a discotheque. he was with a girl and he told me that she was not his girlfriend.  I, to say something, commented that she must be a viscious woman.  He then told me that she was his girl.
fear	emotional_events	Before an exam which I, finally did not take.
anger	emotional_events	At home when they lost three pieces of my puzzle.
sadness	emotional_events	When I had an argument with a friend.
shame	emotional_events	Once I did not have enough money to pay for a coffee.
fear	emotional_events	Before taking an exam.
anger	emotional_events	My family told me to leave if I was not willing to accept the conditions they imposed on me.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine called me when I was not at home.  I phoned her back to know what she wanted and she told me that she had dialled the wrong number.
shame	emotional_events	I fell outside the door of my house.
fear	emotional_events	When I almost fell down from some rocks because I had been acting foolishly and playing dangerously.
anger	emotional_events	Once I saw some children hunting a cat to death.
sadness	emotional_events	The death of a friend.
shame	emotional_events	Once I answered my father rudely.
fear	emotional_events	When I was ten I got shut in the school with a friend.  I had to jump out of a window and cross a beam 10 metres high.
anger	emotional_events	When I was told that a boy did not want to be my friend without any apparent reason.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt that a boy I liked had been with a girl for three years.
shame	emotional_events	When I realized that I had a hole in my trousers after having gone for a walk.
fear	emotional_events	While I was waiting for them to give me the marks of the most difficult subject this year.
anger	emotional_events	I had an argument with my mother because I criticized the rules she imposes at home, which are too rigid and arbitrary for me.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learned that a friend of mine had not been speaking to her boyfriend for a week after an argument because of unfounded jealousy.
shame	emotional_events	A few days back I had to ask a professor a ridiculous question because I had lost at a game of cards and had to pay a forfeit.
fear	emotional_events	When I saw a TV program on the North American military plan called \The startwar\"."
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when I saw on T.V the last slaughter of negroes in South Africa.
sadness	emotional_events	When I saw the pictures of the draught in Etiopia.
shame	emotional_events	On New Year's Eve, when I went to the house of my girlfriend's parents to meet them.
fear	emotional_events	The last time I was face to face with with the monstrous dog which lives in my street.
anger	emotional_events	During a trivial (friendly) discussion, one of the participants made an intervention which made me feel uncomfortable.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard the last regulation of the socialist govrenment concerning pensions.
shame	emotional_events	The last time I had to phone the Registry, after having called them so many times in the last few days.
fear	emotional_events	In a rather important exam, when they caught me red handed copying.
anger	emotional_events	When my father addressed me directly and maliciously, thus including me in the \family war\"."
sadness	emotional_events	When my parents got divorced.
shame	emotional_events	When I was dismissed from a job after having been accused of theft.
fear	emotional_events	When I go out alone at night.
anger	emotional_events	A murder.
sadness	emotional_events	When I failed two subjects last year.
shame	emotional_events	I think that I am rather shy and do not mix with people as I would have liked to, out of shyness.
fear	emotional_events	Every time I went home with my school report.
anger	emotional_events	During an argument between friends, one of them accused me of taking advantage of some other friends who usually come to the university in my car, saying that I ask them too much money for the petrol.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learned that two of my friends had had a serious car accident.
shame	emotional_events	My aunt phoned me to ask me why I had refused the her invitation to dinner at her home on the New Year's Eve.
fear	emotional_events	On a trip to Santander we wanted to stop at a curve because a friend was sick, and the car skidded of the gravel.
anger	emotional_events	My cousins were playing at home and one of them broke a decorative object which was very precious to me.
sadness	emotional_events	All my friends arranged to go for an afternoon snack and they did not tell me.  They told me that they did not have my phone number but I do not think that this was true.
shame	emotional_events	I was swimming in the sea and a wave took the top part of my bikini away.
fear	emotional_events	Fights that I see in the middle of the street, robberies, fear of darkness when going home.
anger	emotional_events	During a family discussion on my future and my prospects as a student, they accused me of not bothering about looking for a job to assume my financial situation.
sadness	emotional_events	[ Depressions.]
shame	emotional_events	For example, to feel bad because of one's attire, to be among people who do not belong to the same social class, to give a wrong answer in class, to be surprised in particular situations.
fear	emotional_events	There was an earthquake for several minutes and I was on the eight floor.
anger	emotional_events	An argument among several friends because of the irrational behavior of one of them who fell out with us for no reason and said that we were to blame.
sadness	emotional_events	A class-mate died after being two months in coma, after a car accident.
shame	emotional_events	Equivocal situation when filling a security questionnaire on entering a government building with several people there.
fear	emotional_events	When they tried to rob me.
anger	emotional_events	When I failed an exam unfairly.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died.
shame	emotional_events	When I went to see the doctor and had to take my clothes off so that he could examine me.
fear	emotional_events	When I was attending an authorized demonstrationand the police rushed brutally at the demonstrators, without any warning.
anger	emotional_events	When a professor of this faculty laughed at, and was suspicious of a composition written by a class-mate and me.
sadness	emotional_events	The death of a relative, friend, or someone I esteem.
shame	emotional_events	When I had to represent my boss at a meeting.
fear	emotional_events	When they threatened me with a knife to take my money.
anger	emotional_events	When I failed an exam I thought I would pass.
sadness	emotional_events	When my dog died.
shame	emotional_events	When I tripped while getting on a bus.
fear	emotional_events	When two drug addicts tried to take away my money.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw my brother being attacked and I could not do anything.
sadness	emotional_events	When a class-mate died.
shame	emotional_events	When inadvertantly I found myself in the ladies room.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to walk over three kms through a field which had wild bulls, because my car had broken down.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw a man hitting a child of 2 years without any consideration, simply because the child had been leaning against a window.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine who was driving a car ahead of me died in a car accident.
shame	emotional_events	When I was a child I had to recite a poem in a show at the end of the term.
fear	emotional_events	We were in the country and I walked away from the others one night.  Suddenly something moved sharply in front of me and I was not able to see what it was.
anger	emotional_events	When I was young, I became very angry as I was not allowed to stay up all night for the fair in my town.
sadness	emotional_events	When summer is over and I have to leave the town where I spend my holidays.
shame	emotional_events	When I inadvertantly entered the ladies room and met some girls on my way out.
fear	emotional_events	One night, walking along a park, I began to think that some roughnecks would appear suddenly with knives and things like that.
anger	emotional_events	I had an exam and I had it well prepared.  I did the first part very well but did not know the second part.
sadness	emotional_events	When my parents did not let me go on a study tour.
shame	emotional_events	Each time the professor asks me a question in class.
fear	emotional_events	A film on zombies.
anger	emotional_events	When males in my family try to assign house duties exclusively with referance to sex.
sadness	emotional_events	I had a quarrell with my boyfriend and decided to finish with him and and my Easter holidays.
shame	emotional_events	When a friend from whom I preferred to hide my private life discovered that I had relations with a man.
fear	emotional_events	When I was walking down the street, some boys showed me a knife and stole all my money.
anger	emotional_events	When they threw my holder down on the floor, with all my notes for an exam inside it and they got all mixed up.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother was operated.
shame	emotional_events	One day I got on the bus without any money or season ticket and the driver threw me out.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking along a subway when I saw a group of louts.  I was rather afraid because I was alone.
anger	emotional_events	An old woman was violently thrown down the stairs of the tube by a group of louts.
sadness	emotional_events	A child, 9 years old, died in a stupid way.  He fell from a place which was 1 metre high.
shame	emotional_events	We were discussing a subject ( I knew very little about it) and I was holding my ground.  They showed me that I was wrong.
fear	emotional_events	Before knowing my marks I was not sure that I wanted to go to that class.
anger	emotional_events	I learned that a class-mate had given a list, of peolpe who help each other in exams, to the professor.
sadness	emotional_events	I phoned two friends and was not able to arrange a meeting with either of them, so I had to change my plans.
shame	emotional_events	I had to meet a girlfriend to go out for a drink and she arrived with her aunt, to whom I was introduced.  Then the aunt left.
fear	emotional_events	When I am alone at night after having read horror stories, and then I heard unexplainable noises.
anger	emotional_events	A typical family argument.
sadness	emotional_events	The disqualification of two of my mates in the military service.
shame	emotional_events	When criticizing something about a person and then realizing that the person whom one is talking to is similar.
fear	emotional_events	Continous fear of a nuclear war.
anger	emotional_events	When you kill yourself with work and see the number of slakers wandering around, doing nothing.
sadness	emotional_events	When someone in my family died.
shame	emotional_events	When people next to me play the fool.
fear	emotional_events	I was in Sierra Nevada, climbing a peak over 3,000 metres high, without any light and with many other problems.  I was afraid for my life.
anger	emotional_events	I was living in a flat where things did not go very well for me.  Finally, they threw me out and this prejudiced people I esteem a lot.
sadness	emotional_events	When I read the diary of the girl with whom I was living, it was about another boy with whom she had been going around some time back.
shame	emotional_events	The first time that I caressed a girl, I was about thirteen and she was eighteen.  I noticed that it did not affect her at all.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking in the countryside alone when I came across two dogs who began barking at me.  I did not know whether they were tied up or loose, but I was afraid of them approaching me.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when my sister began to talk nonsense and to laugh at the way I swept the room.  My anger grew (I tried to control myself).  After telling her to leave me alone, I vented my anger on her as she did not obey me.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother was working with a knife and we were all laughing heartily.  She was not able to control the knife and stuck it deep into her hand.
shame	emotional_events	My mother had just been teaching me how to crochet, which is thought highly improper for a boy in a town.  Just when we finished, a neighbour walked in.
fear	emotional_events	One day I went to the cinema to see a film in which I was interested.  On arriving there I saw a long queue (which I had not expected) and went back home without seeing the film.
anger	emotional_events	When I miss the train and I am late, and I have to wait half an hour for the next one.
sadness	emotional_events	When I knew I had to go out with my mother on some errands.
shame	emotional_events	One day in class, the professor asked me a question concerning something he had been explaining.  He was very close to me (beside me) and I had no idea what to answer.
fear	emotional_events	When I was operated on the knee and had to go through rehabilitation.
anger	emotional_events	In a very important basket-ball match where a lot was at stake, I played very badly.
sadness	emotional_events	When a friend of mine told me that he was going to commit suicide.
shame	emotional_events	Once when I said bad things concerning a friend.
fear	emotional_events	When my mother was robbed in a shop.
anger	emotional_events	I was given an exam which I thought did not measure at all my ability or my knowledge of the subject.
sadness	emotional_events	When I saw the film \Johnny got his gun\" which deals with the á|consequences of the Vietnam war."
shame	emotional_events	I was alone in the bus when I tripped and fell, and dropped all my papers.
fear	emotional_events	One night, while I was sleeping, I woke up suddenly with the sensation that there was someone in my room.
anger	emotional_events	When my brother was held up and robbed.
sadness	emotional_events	When they told me that my grandfather was rather ill.
shame	emotional_events	When I fell head on in a fountain.
fear	emotional_events	I had decided to propose to the man I liked to make a trip together.  One day, during breakfast I told him my idea.  I was afraid of his not accepting it and that the idea would end up as a failure.
anger	emotional_events	A person I trusted a lot gave me many false explanations to justify a wrong action.
sadness	emotional_events	I was having breakfast with a classmate and suddenly I began to cry as I thought of a friend of mine whom I had not seen for a long time.
shame	emotional_events	When a professor caught me absent-minded and not paying attention to what he was saying.
fear	emotional_events	Once I failed seven subjects at school and I was terrified to give my report card to my father.  I left it on the table and went to bed very early in order to avoid him seeing me.
anger	emotional_events	When, after drinking a glass of water, I found a cockroach walking out of the glass.
sadness	emotional_events	I have a very close friend who lives in another city and we have been writing to each other for a long time.  The last time I went to her city, just to see her, I was disappointed to see how great the distance between us was.
shame	emotional_events	The girl with whom I was going around had been forbidden to be alone with me in the house.  We paid no attention to this prohibition but one day her parents appeared and I jumped out of the window.  They saw me.
fear	emotional_events	I stayed alone in the dark at night in the mountain, waiting for my uncle.  I remember that I took a big stone and it calmed me.
anger	emotional_events	We were at school, in the room for audiovisual classes.  We were watching a film, and just behind me two classmates were bothering me with their mocking and shoves.  I reacted angrily (I suppose)  by hitting one of them.
sadness	emotional_events	[ During a summer holiday a French girl and I had becoe back home, I felt very sad.]
shame	emotional_events	In a Mathematics class, the professor asked me a question and I gave the wrong answer.
fear	emotional_events	When my mother had a nervous illness.
anger	emotional_events	During my last exam.
sadness	emotional_events	When I had to come back from my village last Christmas.
shame	emotional_events	Once I had to visit a rather special person.
fear	emotional_events	A fall during a climb, with almost with no previous experience.
anger	emotional_events	On the occasion of assignment of tasks and responsibilities in which such an assignment, dispropotionately carried with it high responsibility and low ability of organisation and resolution.
sadness	emotional_events	Moving to an unknown place, away from the familiar surroundings and into a situation of loneliness.
shame	emotional_events	While shopping, a person close to us created an uncomfortable situation for those who were with her.
fear	emotional_events	In a dark street at 4 o'clock in the night and there was complete silence.
anger	emotional_events	When they broke the artistic work of several weeks.  Changes were made and it was broken without permission, they had no right to do this.
sadness	emotional_events	When the train taking me to my military service left the station, on the platform remained relatives, projects and goodtimes.  I had a hard year ahead.
shame	emotional_events	A children's film in which I played a clown, with spotlights, cameras and the director who demanded jumps and guffaws.
fear	emotional_events	When I was young I saw a horror film.  Then when I went to sleep, the film came back too my mind and the characters frighteneed my imagination.
anger	emotional_events	In a confrontation with a person, he provoked me several times till I reacted in an angry way.  Fortunately there were no disastrous consequences.
sadness	emotional_events	I was watching a sad film and it affected me deeply.
shame	emotional_events	In class I had to say something aloud and people reacted  by laughing.
fear	emotional_events	It was more that fear - anguish -that I felt before my last exam.
anger	emotional_events	When I had an argument with my best friend and I thought that I was right and she was not.
sadness	emotional_events	When I realized that it was impossible for me to be as free as I had imagined and that I could not do anythong about it.
shame	emotional_events	When I stated sharply something I was not very sure of and a few days later I was shown to be wrong.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking down a road and suddenly a few dogs appeared at a fence and started barking angrily.  They were jumping and it seemed that they would come for me any time.
anger	emotional_events	When I knew that they would not give me a transfer from one university to another.  I began to insult the educatioon authorities and the government, I ended up at the door.
sadness	emotional_events	We went to visit my mother at the residence.  She was crying and said that she was about to die.  I believed all her complaints and continously thought of the possibility of loosing her.
shame	emotional_events	A professor was going to read aloud in class a composition of mine in which I had criticized some political attitudes and also some class-mates.   I was ashamed at having written that.
fear	emotional_events	I was at the cinema with my sister and her boyfriend.  A man sitting beside me started to stroke my leg for a while, he left in the middle of the film.
anger	emotional_events	My father began to say incoherant things concerning my brother's and my own behaviour towards him.  His biased (authoritarian) and ridiculous point of view made us angry.
sadness	emotional_events	I had failed some subjects in mathematics.
shame	emotional_events	This morning I spent a lot of time on my toilet and missed the train to the university.  My mother told me that I spent more time than a woman on my toilet.  I felt a mixed emotion of shame and anger.
fear	emotional_events	When I was caught by the police and was kept with a group of delinquents, which added to my fear of being shut up.  I was afraid of the people near me and the future consequences.
anger	emotional_events	When I was the target of a great many insults and completely unfair accusations of a large group of people.
sadness	emotional_events	When my best friend died, at the age of 16.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in a religious school my teacher showed me up in front of all my class-mates.  They were very sarcastic and cruel.
fear	emotional_events	I had an accident in which I hurt my eye.  I was afraid of having injured it badly.
anger	emotional_events	When I was accused of something I had not done.
sadness	emotional_events	A close friend died.
shame	emotional_events	I slipped and fell in to a puddle and people started looking at me.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking with another person when a \gang\" separted us and á|pushed me in to a house, hit me in the stomach and the face, then á|they left - leaving me bleeding."
anger	emotional_events	A certain person started to say dreadful things very calmly, I felt hurt and disgusted.
sadness	emotional_events	A certain person whom I respect and esteem a lot pays me no attention.  She keeps up appearances but shows almost no interest in me.
shame	emotional_events	A person (a male) told me that he liked me.  He has a problem, he is a homosexual.
fear	emotional_events	When my relatives and I were in a car going slowly on a frozen road.
anger	emotional_events	My parents were having a typical family argument.  I came in and saw the scene and became angry.
sadness	emotional_events	I was going away, leaving a dear person behind.
shame	emotional_events	At a friend's party there were several allusions to my sexual adventures.
fear	emotional_events	When I am walking on the streets and see a gang of thugs.
anger	emotional_events	When people harrass me I feel oppressed by their behavior.
sadness	emotional_events	When I am with a friend and we have to leave each other.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in the toilet and someone came in.
fear	emotional_events	On a dark night I felt that there were several people near me and I did not know who they were.
anger	emotional_events	When I learned that several people had died in the street due to  the cold weather.
sadness	emotional_events	When I saw in the newspapers, on the T.V, and magazines the chaotic situation caused by the drought and hunger in Mauritania.
shame	emotional_events	I was with a group of people and everybody told me to do or say something.  It was a confusing, strong and traumatic situation for me.
fear	emotional_events	During a demonstration I climbed up the closed central door of a bus.  When the bus stopped I had to go back to the same place, afraid that the police would see me.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw parents punishing their little child for something he had not done.  In my opinion, even if he had done it he should not have been punished for it.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine was hurt as he thought that our relationship was not the same as before and something had gone wrong.
shame	emotional_events	The parents of a friend of mine surprised us and another couple sleeping in thier place.
fear	emotional_events	Almost always when I go to fetch the results of an exam.
anger	emotional_events	[ No description.]
sadness	emotional_events	When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time.
shame	emotional_events	I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents attention by talking to them.
fear	emotional_events	When a friend of mine told me a horror story.
anger	emotional_events	I was with my family and we found some abandoned puppies.  I wanted to help them but everyone said no.  We then left.
sadness	emotional_events	At my grandfather's death.
shame	emotional_events	At a concert an old man arrived and began to danse, sing and do silly things.
fear	emotional_events	We were on the road in a car when a lorry bypassed us.  We had to swerve and we almost got run over.
anger	emotional_events	I had applied for a job and they had assured me that the exams would take place a few months later.  A week later I went to obtain some more information and they told me that the exams had already taken place.
sadness	emotional_events	I received a letter from some friends, who do not live in Madrid, telling me that they would not come on holiday.  I had arranged everythiing for them.
shame	emotional_events	I was in a very small class and the professor said something about me that made everyone look at me at the same time.
fear	emotional_events	I thought that I would be scolded for a comment I had made, which I should not have made.
anger	emotional_events	My sister came back home and reproached me for not having tidied up the house, although I had been working all morning and she had done nothing.
sadness	emotional_events	At my grandfather's funeral.  I remembered that the thing he liked and respected most was earth, I thought that he had attained what he wanted and was not separated from it any longer.
shame	emotional_events	In a very crowded shop I was distracted and missed my turn in the queue.  A woman who was behind me began to shout at me asking me either to pay more attention or to leave.
fear	emotional_events	I was in my village when a bull jumped over a fence and started chasing my friends and me.  We were very frightened till we climbed up a tree.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw a car run over a child, out of carelessness.
sadness	emotional_events	I failed a subject despite the fact that I had studied quite a lot for it.
shame	emotional_events	I liked a boy and I would feel shy and then blush.  The more I wanted to avoid it the more I blushed.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking down a little village at night.  There was nobody in the steet.  A dog began to bark, I felt that it was following me.  Then I began to run, the other dogs started barking too.  At last I arrived home.
anger	emotional_events	My parents did not let me go on holidays with my friends.
sadness	emotional_events	I was told that a friend of mine was going to Mexico for good.
shame	emotional_events	I was at the University dining room, alone, and at a table next to mine thre were several professors.  One of them asked me to join them.  I refused but she insisted.  All the others started looking at me and I had to move to their table.
fear	emotional_events	We were camping in the mountains, and a friend and I went for a walk.  It was getting darker and darker and we were not sure of the right way back.
anger	emotional_events	I sent a book to a friend of mine.  The book meant a lot to me and he lost it.
sadness	emotional_events	To say goodbye to dear friends after the holidays.
shame	emotional_events	At the seaside, when a wave suddenly came and took off my bikini.
fear	emotional_events	Waiting for my marks in a difficult subject.
anger	emotional_events	I gave some personal information to a friend of mine, and he told it to some others who were implicated in the affair.
sadness	emotional_events	The holidays come to an end, and the next day we had to go back to University and to the exams.
shame	emotional_events	At a meeting with over one hundred people, they decided who had to speak from the stand by drawing lots.
fear	emotional_events	I was attacked by a man at a bus stop at night.
anger	emotional_events	My mother told me that I could not go to the mountains.  Despite my age, as long as I am in her house I must do what she says.
sadness	emotional_events	When my nephew was taken to hospital with meningitis and we did not know what would happen.
shame	emotional_events	When I went to my boyfriend's house for lunch and saw his parents, I felt that they were watching me all the time.
fear	emotional_events	We were walking in the park at night.  It was very dark and very late.  We began to hear foot steps all around us, and we could not find our way out.
anger	emotional_events	[ One day I arrived home rather tired and found the house..... In addition I was asked many questions which I did not want to answer.]
sadness	emotional_events	I was selected to do a rest for a foreign ballet but I did not have the money to do it.
shame	emotional_events	I was swimming in the river and I lost the top of my bikini.  I did not notice it and came out of water.  There was a disagreeable classmate watching the scene.
fear	emotional_events	One night, I was alone at home.  My fear was caused by some strange noises which put my imagination to work.
anger	emotional_events	When I got to know about the reaction of a friend of mine in a certain situation.  I had not expected him to react that way.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt alone among a large number of people.  I was sad to see that nobody cared about what was happening to me.
shame	emotional_events	When I met a friend of mine after several months.
fear	emotional_events	I was watching a procession during the Holy week, and a penitent approached me.
anger	emotional_events	My mother read a letter that a friend of mine had written to me telling me how she had got drunk the last time.
sadness	emotional_events	[ No response.]
shame	emotional_events	I ride my motorbike in my village and everyone stares at me as if I was a rare specimen.
fear	emotional_events	I was in a camp and went out for a walk at night on my own.  I lost  my way and spent several hours looking for the camp.
anger	emotional_events	My parents scolded me a lot for something I had not done.  It was my sister who had done it.
sadness	emotional_events	[ No response.]
shame	emotional_events	I greeted and embraced the wrong person thinking that it was my friend.
fear	emotional_events	When we got lost in Florence and the coach did not turn up until midnight.  I had no place to go to and there were strange reports at the police station.
anger	emotional_events	When an English teacher unfairly made me repeat a semester which I thought I had passed.  I had to ask my parents for some more money to carry on studying.
sadness	emotional_events	The person whom I liked most left me for a friend of mine, after several months of mutual help and a profound knowledge of each other.
shame	emotional_events	I feel this emotion very often when I try to express my feelings in public, because other people do not understand my reactions and think that I am silly.
fear	emotional_events	When I was at home alone, I felt a super-natural force, dangerous for me and the people close to me.
anger	emotional_events	When my father made my mother go through really terrible situations, I felt furious, impotent, nervous, upset, ........
sadness	emotional_events	When a person whom I loved and admired a lot died.  I felt empty, lonely, helpless, without support, not knowing what to do.
shame	emotional_events	I think that the only time I really felt shame was when I was very young and I had to defecate on the street.  I was very worried in case someone should see me.
fear	emotional_events	We were riding in a friend's car.  He was driving very fast and suddenly a another car crossed the road in front of us.  My friend had to turn the car rapidly.
anger	emotional_events	When I found one of my new pullovers wrinkled inside the wardrobe.  My brother had done it.
sadness	emotional_events	When I went to see the result of an exam and saw that I had failed.
shame	emotional_events	The mother of a friend of mine passed by me and saw me sitting on a boy's lap.  I tried to greet her but could not help blushing.
fear	emotional_events	I went to visit a friend in hospital.  He was going to be operated the next day.  I was afraid that they would not let me in and I did not know what his reaction would be on seeing me.
anger	emotional_events	A friend of mine played a joke on another friend over the telephone.  This friend, crying, called me and I got very angry and made the other person apologize.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine told me that my boyfriend had been with another girl this Summer.  We had been going out together for four years and we had not done so for the last three months.  I could not believe it.
shame	emotional_events	I was dancing in a theatre.  I was not sure whether some frieends of mine had come to see me.  I was very scared of doing things wrong.
fear	emotional_events	Travelling by coach on a rather narrow and wet road.
anger	emotional_events	They wanted me to pay for a ticket twice because they said that the one I had was out of date.
sadness	emotional_events	When I came back from my holidays.
shame	emotional_events	When I entered a bar looking for a friend.
fear	emotional_events	Once, when I was very young, my mother left me alone in the house and came back very late.
anger	emotional_events	When my aunt told me angrily that I was a good-for-nothing and she was fed up with my behaviour.
sadness	emotional_events	When my parents and sister went on a trip and I was separated from them for about three months.
shame	emotional_events	When the literature teacher made me recite a poem in the middle of the class and I had to gesticulate.
fear	emotional_events	I was spending my summer holidays in a village.  My friend and I were coming back from a discotheque at night and we heard a noise from an alley.  We were very scared and we got into my friend's house.  A moment later, an unknown car picked up a person from this alley.
anger	emotional_events	My mother and I had an argument over buying some clothes for me.  She did not accept the fact that I did not like the same things as her, and we ended up shouting at each other.
sadness	emotional_events	One day, I was home and there was a phone call informing me that some of my relatives had died in an accident.
shame	emotional_events	I was walking to school and I passed by a red cross post where there were many soldiers.  They began to pass remarks at me.
fear	emotional_events	When my brother hit his head and lost consciousness at the sports practice.  For some time he could not remember what had happened but he recovered later.
anger	emotional_events	I get angry with my brothers and sisters when they do something that I do not like.  They know this and still do it so as to tease me.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	When I was young I was told to to the shop to buy a dozen eggs.  I went and asked for one egg and the people in the shop laughed at me and so did my family when I told them what had happened.
fear	emotional_events	When I was told that my daughter, who is at a boarding school, was very ill and that they needed me there the same day.
anger	emotional_events	One day in a clinic, the father of a child came in and assaulted a colleague for something that she had not done deliberately.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was told that my uncle had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	One day when I came back home, I found my favourite dish broken.  I blamed the servant for it, later I found out that it was not the servant but my daughter who had broken it.
fear	emotional_events	When a man who had a knife grabbed me and threatened me with it,   during my holidays in Monze.á
anger	emotional_events	A certain friend tried to push me off a seat in a very violent way for no apparent reason.  It may be that he was excited about something.
sadness	emotional_events	When the neighbour of a friend of mine was stabbed to death by thieves in Kabwe.  They stole his van.
shame	emotional_events	The time I shouted at most of my friends at a party.  It was as if  all my friends had done something wrong, or may be it was the influence of the beer.
fear	emotional_events	When I was about six years old, I mistook a cat for a leopard      when it entered my room at night.
anger	emotional_events	When a person the same age as me insisted that I call him \Mister\".  I refused to succumb, but he persisted and I got angry á|as he had belittled me."
sadness	emotional_events	When I lost my father on the 25th of September,1970.  He died of a sore on the leg.
shame	emotional_events	I was going around with a foreigner's wife and my entire family got to know about it, this was just when I had become a Christian.
fear	emotional_events	I was almost caught in the girls hostel by the security men, I would have been expelled from school had I been caught.
anger	emotional_events	When I was accused of having refused to do some hostel work while I was at school.  Actually I had not been allocated any work.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine could not make it back to Unza after having failed the exams.
shame	emotional_events	I got pass marks in the H.S.S compulsory courses while most people performed well.
fear	emotional_events	When my father's home was to be broken into by thieves who had guns.
anger	emotional_events	When a friend tried to back bite me on false grounds.  This made me wonder if he was a really a good friend.
sadness	emotional_events	When my girlfriend's nephew passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was with my colleagues and we met an elderly man who was very drunk, as he approached us he started to undress.
fear	emotional_events	When someone tried to bewitch me and my friends at night.
anger	emotional_events	When I was victimized for running away with a girl who was somebody else's wife and niece at the same time.  I was very angry over this issue because I was told to pay him money after having been punished for it.
sadness	emotional_events	1976, Soweto uprising in South Africa and the racist Gout's reaction to the students demands concerning the educational system.
shame	emotional_events	When I was found urinating, behind a toilet instead of inside it, by my class mates and the teachers.  I was told to pick up my own urine from the wet soil, I did it.
fear	emotional_events	When I was walking at night, I saw fire suspended in the air and it was split into several segments by something I could not see.  I suspected that it was witch-craft.
anger	emotional_events	When I was accused by my brother of having stolen a 5 kwatcha note from my mother's bag.  I was beaten up for this, the money was found later.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received a message that my brother was seriously ill and was in hospital.
shame	emotional_events	When I was taking an exam in grade 5.  The examinator found me with a note-book and accused me of copying, All the students laughed at me.
fear	emotional_events	When I went to town in a double dekker bus.  The bus was about to fall on the way when the driver controlled it.  It had almost fallen.
anger	emotional_events	When I was in form 3, my aunts lied to my daddy telling him that I had told them that I was pregnant.  My daddy  told my mother and she asked me if it was true.  I was very angry with my aunts.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received a letter telling me that my mother was very ill.
shame	emotional_events	My brother came to see me and found me with a boy friend.  When my boyfriend greeted him, he did not answer and instead started shouting at me and scolding me in the prescence of my boyfriend.
fear	emotional_events	When two of my children were critically ill with measles.
anger	emotional_events	When I got a low grade in an administration course.
sadness	emotional_events	When I got divorced from my husband after ten years of marriage.
shame	emotional_events	When I gave my boyfriend a brush-off.
fear	emotional_events	When I woke up at night to find a fire spreading towards the bed -rooms.  I was very frightened as I realized that I faced death.
anger	emotional_events	When a friend of mine was trying to make a fool out of me.
sadness	emotional_events	I experienced this emotion when my friend committed suicide after we had spent the afternoon playing and discussing life and it's problems.
shame	emotional_events	When I got drunk at a party and made a fool of myself by vomitting all over the place and insulting the people who were there with me.
fear	emotional_events	When a thief broke into my house at night.
anger	emotional_events	When my sister broke my china tea set.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when my son died after a short illness.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed to answer a simple question.
fear	emotional_events	When I was nearly beaten up by the brother of my girlfriend.
anger	emotional_events	When I heard that my girlfriend was talking behind my back and looking down on me.
sadness	emotional_events	When a friend, who has been with me at school, failed to make it to UNZA.
shame	emotional_events	I choked on a cold drink in front of girls who were strangers.
fear	emotional_events	When I was told by the doctor, after many months of coughing, that I had tuberculosis.
anger	emotional_events	When a cousin of mine took my bottle of T.B tablets, put water in it and threw it in the dust-bin.
sadness	emotional_events	This happened when one of my uncles died just whan I was planning to go and visit him during the next holidays.
shame	emotional_events	When five of my friends at the secondary school found out the bad things that I had been saying about them.
fear	emotional_events	One evening I saw the old guard-man I knew, change into something inhuman for about 5-10 seconds, this really frightened me.
anger	emotional_events	When I was mistakenly accused of being a thief when I accidently gave a fake coin at a counter.  I realized this before I handed over the coin, but the man called me a thief and called a witness.
sadness	emotional_events	The day I woke up to find that a kitten I had wanted to keep had been eaten by the neighbour's dogs.  It had been locked out by my wife who claimed that it had dirtied the sheets.
shame	emotional_events	My mother caught me stealing some food when I was a young boy.
fear	emotional_events	When I broke the window pane of my next door neighbour's house.
anger	emotional_events	When my brother did not send me the transport money to resume      my studies in time at UNZA.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my nephew had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When I stole a book in class and the teacher caught me, the rest of the class laughed at my attempt.
fear	emotional_events	I turned the knob of my granny's two band radio and did not hear any broadcast,  \ What ! Have I broken the knob ? How much does á|it cost ? What if the spare part is not available ? \"  --I did á|not know how to tune a radio."
anger	emotional_events	I peeped into Maurine's bedroom and saw two people - Maurine anbd my step-dad.  I thought, \ Why did she break her promises ? Why á|had she invited me ? Why do old men go for young girls ? \""
sadness	emotional_events	When I missed the chance of becoming a graduate in mining engineering, after having prayed one week in the church I was not even selected.
shame	emotional_events	When a lady I was flirting with told all my class-mates that she was in second year while I was in first year, everyone laughed and started looking at me.
fear	emotional_events	It was when I dreamt that I had encountered Satan, he wanted to grab me and take me to his kingdom.  He was very repulsive and I have never seen anything like that before.
anger	emotional_events	This was when I found out that a cousin of mine had taken away my trousers without my consent.
sadness	emotional_events	When I failed a test at my primary school.  I was then in grade 7 and we were about to take the main exam.
shame	emotional_events	This was when I was discovered stealing a piece of bread at home, I was very hungry a few hours before supper.
fear	emotional_events	I was escorting a relative on a bike, we passed by a dark road with bushas on each side.  Half way down this road, suddenly, we   saw a white dog appear from one side.  Before we could do anything, it had vanished and moreover it did not seem to have any legs.
anger	emotional_events	The comrade staying next doors insulted me for what he called  the misuse of his iron.  He called me stupid, self centered etc.  I wanted to punch him but instead went for a walk to the mining school to cool off.
sadness	emotional_events	A close relative was at odds with a very powerful firm.  All his things had been taken, His dad had died a little before this event.  He gathhered his children and vowed to give them a good life with a new start - the words were hollow, he bit back his tears .....I asked to be excused and then went and cried in the loo.
shame	emotional_events	My girlfriend had started going around with another boy.  Her cousin, also a friend of mine, asked her as to who she preferred.  Both of us were present and she chose the other guy.
fear	emotional_events	This was at secondary school, a prefect framed up some case and took it to the deputy head-master.  I was called by the head-master and he threatened to suspend me.
anger	emotional_events	When I travelled all the way to my former school to collect my certificate, only to be told that I owed them some money, I knew nothing about this.
sadness	emotional_events	My sister was in a hospital, later in the evening we received the information that she had died.
shame	emotional_events	When I received a letter from my girlfriend telling me that she was engaged to an another man.
fear	emotional_events	While paddling in the river during a storm.  I feared drowning.
anger	emotional_events	I entrusted a friend with the delivery of some money to my father, however he misused the money.
sadness	emotional_events	The loss of my mother.
shame	emotional_events	At school - being whipped by the teacher in front of the class.
fear	emotional_events	When I saw a ghost.
anger	emotional_events	My trouser's zipper was open when I was at a public wedding.
sadness	emotional_events	When a friend left me and went back home for good.
shame	emotional_events	Insulted my girlfriend during a peptalk.
fear	emotional_events	The time I was threatened with expulsion from secondary school (form four).
anger	emotional_events	When I discovered that the people I trusted most were talking behind my back.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard about the death of my aunt.
shame	emotional_events	I was running in front of a crowd when I slipped and fell on a wet lawn.
fear	emotional_events	I watched a very terrfying film in LT2.  This film really pushed my heart out of my body and I was forced to go out before the second reel ended.
anger	emotional_events	\ I have been hearing rumours that you have not been allowing á|people in your room,\" he said.  This sentence really shot my á|heart.  I failed to find the right words, instead I walked away á|without uttering a word."
sadness	emotional_events	One Saturday morning I had got ready to go out swimming with my friends.  Unfortunately the weather did not permit it, so we stayed indoors.
shame	emotional_events	I had gone to aa bookshop to buy some books.  Somehow, I got very cross with the security guard checking through what I had bought.  I lost my temper and screamed at him.  Later I felt very ashamed at myself as a lot of people I know were there.
fear	emotional_events	The possibility of having failed the examination.
anger	emotional_events	When someone chased me from his house.
sadness	emotional_events	When I realized that I did not have the basic things needed by a student like me.
shame	emotional_events	When someone I know was caught in an \adultery\" situation."
fear	emotional_events	The shooting started and we all lay down to protect ourselves from the flying bullets.  This incident occured on our way to Feira, during the Zambia army patrols in the Rhodesia war.
anger	emotional_events	I went to the dining hall and found that the cooks were cleaning the plates and there was no food for me, and the blue birds  (security guards) were busy eating the food that was supposed to be for me.
sadness	emotional_events	That afternoon I received two messages informing me, one that my brother was in a coma in the U.T.H suffering (kidney disease) and two, that my uncle met with an accident on his way to the hospital  to see my brother.
shame	emotional_events	When I walked out of my room with only my pants on and found my girlfriend and her female friend looking for me outside.
fear	emotional_events	One evening, when I had gone fishing with my friends, we heard the roar of a lion near by and had to run for our lives.
anger	emotional_events	When somebody stole my brother's disco machine.
sadness	emotional_events	When my uncle died.
shame	emotional_events	I was double crossing my fiancee and one day she caught me red handed.  She forgave me later.  I was very ashamed of what I had done.
fear	emotional_events	I was approaching my exam time and my books got stolen.  I was in a panic as I thought that I would not do well enough to be considered for the economics quota.  I cried a lot but that did not help and as the exam day came near a strange fear gripped me.
anger	emotional_events	I was annoyed this particular day as it seemad that the odds were not in my favour.  My grandfather added fuel to the fire, when I  had an important appointment so I unleashed my anger on him.
sadness	emotional_events	It was the time I went home for my holidays only to find that my sister had passed away.  The news had been hidden from me, so that I could take my exams.
shame	emotional_events	I was caught stealing food at my aunt's place.  I had tried to hide the food I had taken from the pantry while my aunt was in the kitchen, however she went to the pantry and discovered the stolen package.
fear	emotional_events	When I heard a lion roar for the first time.
anger	emotional_events	When a friend told me that my education had nothing to do with our discussion.  This friend has failed the 7th grade, what made me angry was that I had not used my education to argue.
sadness	emotional_events	When my beloved grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	When I was leaving home I decided to leave without saying good-bye to my young brother.  My brother saw me and said,        \ Will you not say good-bye to me?\"  He is only 31/2 years old. "
fear	emotional_events	When I was going home, I saw somathing which looked like a snake   on the road but later I found out that it was only a stick.
anger	emotional_events	This happened recently, I  was in the dining hall and one of my friends with whom I was eating called me a fool.
sadness	emotional_events	I experienced this when my maternal grandmother passed away.  She was the last of my grand parents to pass away.
shame	emotional_events	I insulted the girl to whom I had proposed when she turned me down.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking through a thick forest and there was a big snake at a distance of about four metres.
anger	emotional_events	When my daughter began staying away from classes - at the age of nine only.
sadness	emotional_events	When my wife died in hospital, she was pregnant and had undergone an operation.
shame	emotional_events	I was very drunk at a certain wedding party and I got involved in a fight.
fear	emotional_events	We were driving at night and I realized that a car was following us.
anger	emotional_events	I reachad home to find that my baby had not been bathed and fed.
sadness	emotional_events	I saw a dead child which was not covered, it had been knocked down by a car.
shame	emotional_events	I scolded my sister without waiting for her explanation.
fear	emotional_events	When I took blood from a patient for alcohol estimation and urine for some other examination, he told me that something bad would happen to me as he would play magic on me.
anger	emotional_events	When the dean of UNZA asked me to vacate a big flat I was occupying and take up a smaller one as I was becoming a full time student at UNZA.
sadness	emotional_events	When my close friend was involved in an accident and passed away instantly.  He had gone to buy a new car and had asked me to wait at his home so that I could see his new car.
shame	emotional_events	A patient, to whom I had given a powerful medicine, shouted at me in front of many people.  I realized that he did so because he was very ill.
fear	emotional_events	I was sleeping when I heard the neighbours screaming, I peeped through the window and saw a thief  trying to enter my neighbour's house.
anger	emotional_events	I was annoyed when a person higher up asked me why a particular job was not done, it was not my job to do it.
sadness	emotional_events	My brother came to tell me about some problems we had in the  family.  I felt sad because I thought that if my mother had not gone away when this brother was younger, things would have been different.
shame	emotional_events	After a jogging session I had severe abdominal cramps and this lead to my wanting to empty my bladder.  My friends gathered around me and two of them had to help me to the toilet.  I was ashamed at having to go to the toilet in the presence of my friends.
fear	emotional_events	I had gone for a medical check-up at the U.T.H and failed to make it back on time for the C119 practical sessions at 1400 hours last academic year.
anger	emotional_events	When I was mistreated by my step-mother.
sadness	emotional_events	When my aunt passed away in early 1982.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed my grade 7 exam at the first attempt in 1975.  My father and the entire family thought that I was finished in life.  I really felt like hiding.
fear	emotional_events	When a drunkard barged into a room where my friend and I had run in order to get away from him.  We were all alone and all I could see was this hand coming towards me.
anger	emotional_events	When a friend and me played a joke on our boyfriends.  Her boyfriend came up and accused me of having planned the whole thing and said that I did not deserve my boyfriend.  He embarassed me in front of a crowd.
sadness	emotional_events	When my family and I heard of the death of my grandfather.  We had  seen him a few weeks earlier and it seemed that he had just been waiting to see us.
shame	emotional_events	When a soppy poem that I had written to a boy was found and every one read it and started teasing me about it.
fear	emotional_events	Birds had made nests in our thatched roof and they were flying and flapping their wings in the bedroom at night.  It was very dark and I could not even see my nose.  I did not know that it was the birds till my mother told me so.
anger	emotional_events	The juniors in our dormitory at school started to complain and make a lot of noise about the duties assigned to them by the prefect who was my class-mate and was very cool and dull.
sadness	emotional_events	My elder sister scolded me in front of my younger sisters and cousins.  She said that I was very lazy and I felt so sad that I cried myself to sleep.
shame	emotional_events	When I wet my bed at boarding school.
fear	emotional_events	When I came back from work one day, the friends of my son told me that he had not come back from school and that he was lost.
anger	emotional_events	My room-mate locked up our room without specifying where I would find the keys.  I had to spend several hours in my other friend's room.
sadness	emotional_events	I lost my grandfather whom I loved very much.  I had not known that he had been ill for a very time, when I received this message he was already dead.
shame	emotional_events	I forgot that the course instructor had directed us to go for special classes after the usual class hours.  I missed this the first day and when he asked me about it the next day I said that I had forgotten.
fear	emotional_events	After having taken an exam i feared having failed it.
anger	emotional_events	I was badly beaten up by one of my friends during a wedding party.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad at hearing that my grandfather had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed at being the only one to have got a C+ in ED120 assignment.
fear	emotional_events	When I first came to the UNZA I did not know the kind of people I would find here and the kind of behaviour they would have towards me.
anger	emotional_events	I had gone home for a week-end and when I came back I found that my clothes and my bedding had been stolen.
sadness	emotional_events	When my father passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the grade seven exams.
fear	emotional_events	When my little sister was sick at home and I thought that she would die.
anger	emotional_events	When I found out that my sister had been playing with my confidential things which she had taken from my hand-bag.
sadness	emotional_events	When one of my best friends commited siucide during these holidays.
shame	emotional_events	When I got very low marks in one of the assignments.
fear	emotional_events	When a thunder belt hit the roof top of the building I was in.
anger	emotional_events	When my room-mate locked me out deliberately, before an exam due at 1400 hours.
sadness	emotional_events	When my friends died one after the other.  The first died in a car accident and the second one recently, due to an illness.
shame	emotional_events	Getting drunk and creating a lot of trouble at a place I respect - my friend's home.
fear	emotional_events	The day I encountered a queer mamba face to face in a chunk of leaves behind our house.
anger	emotional_events	When my friends tried to discriminate against my friendship with certain other friends which they thought was improper.
sadness	emotional_events	The day my teacher of Latin and French died.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed of myself the first time I drank as nobody in the family drinks.  I felt that I had let down my parents and my friends.
fear	emotional_events	I was caught doing something I was not supposed to do.  I did something with the person who caught me (bribe) and even though he promised not to report me, I am still frightened.
anger	emotional_events	I told my friend something confidential which was supposed to remain between the two of us.  The next thing that happened was that a girl who is not even close to us came laughing and askad me to tell her about it.  I was very angry with my friend as I had trusted her.
sadness	emotional_events	I remember that when my mother died the day was sad and every time I think of it I am saddened by the loss of my mother.
shame	emotional_events	When I bribed the person who caught me doing something I was not supposed to have done.  I was very ashamed of what I had done.
fear	emotional_events	I was a passenger in a vehicle when suddenly another vehicle came from behind to overtake us.  However another one was coming right in front so the other vehicle changed course and blocked our way and so we crashed against the side of the road.
anger	emotional_events	I was asked to stop studying economics, a field which interested me, by my employers.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt of the death of a friend.
shame	emotional_events	My love proposal was turned down by a lady I really loved.
fear	emotional_events	When I was confronted by a policeman one night around 11 o'clock.  I was afraid when they threatened to take me and my girl to the gallows.
anger	emotional_events	When an argument with a friend of mine over our behaviour towards another friend turned into a quarrel.   I lost my temper and nearly knocked him out.
sadness	emotional_events	When I lost my father in a car accident.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed when a friend, I had always respected, insulted me in public.  He was drunk.
fear	emotional_events	When I was an exploration with my friends and almost got lost in an unfamiliar environment.  It was getting dark and we did not know how to get back home.
anger	emotional_events	When my father did not get back from Chipata on time, he was thus holding back progress as everything depended on him.  I felt angry over his actions.
sadness	emotional_events	When my little brother passed away mysteriously, at least from what I was told about it.
shame	emotional_events	When I almost did something awful with a friend of mine and myself.
fear	emotional_events	When thieves broke into our neighbour's house and later we heard gunshots.
anger	emotional_events	When my aunt scolded me for something I was not responsible for.  A boy had come to our gate asking for me, my aunt went out to see him.  I had neither met nor known the boy.
sadness	emotional_events	When my cousin passed away unexpectedly and tragically (a murder).
shame	emotional_events	When my friend had a child out of wedlock.
fear	emotional_events	When we forced a friend to chew a poisonous herb in primary school.  His tongue was swollen and he told his mother about it.  The mother reported it to the headmaster who threatened to expel us.
anger	emotional_events	At boarding school someone put a lot of tiny thorns on my bed.  When I complained everybody began teasing me and laughing at my inability to find out my enemies.  I lost my temper.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	As a kid my mother caught me stealing sugar and giving it to a neighbour.
fear	emotional_events	I felt very frightened when a robber broke into our house and threatened to shoot my father if he did not part with some money.  I was looking at the man with his hand on the trigger.
anger	emotional_events	A teacher at my former secondary school forced my darling to marry him.  The girl tried to refuse but her parents would not leave her alone.
sadness	emotional_events	When my sister died, she was only sixteen when she was put to rest.
shame	emotional_events	When my father found me in bed with a girl, we were deep in actioon when he entered the room.
fear	emotional_events	I went home late one evening and saw that the security lights were off.  I got inside the gate and just then I realized that the dogs may be outside.
anger	emotional_events	My little niece, who is very talkative, suddenly became very naughty and began wetting her pants.  She did it one afternoon.
sadness	emotional_events	This morning during my sleep I had a feeling that someboby was attacking me.  I started crying in my sleep and then my room-mate woke me up.
shame	emotional_events	My cousin and I were at the farm and at night we drunk like fools and made a lot of noise.  We had drunk two much of wine.
fear	emotional_events	When I saw an accident, a woman was run over and she died on the spot.
anger	emotional_events	When my dress and a few other things were stolen from my wardrobe.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When I ate my sister's food and then she found out that it was me.  I felt very ashamed but still refused to admit that it was me.
fear	emotional_events	When I was told that the form five results were out.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw my younger sister being bothered by a boy she did not know.
sadness	emotional_events	The time I lost a badminton match, that I should have won at the Zambia closed badminton championships.
shame	emotional_events	When my dad caught me with a honey (girlfriend) in my bedroom.
fear	emotional_events	When I impregnated a certain girl, I thought that I would be forced to marry her or go to court.
anger	emotional_events	When the university withdrew the accomodation that it had given me.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother and father separated (it was a brief separation and they are together now).
shame	emotional_events	When I proposed love to a girl and she turned me down.
fear	emotional_events	Two guys were fighting murderously and I feared that one of them would be killed.
anger	emotional_events	When I could not reason my friend, it angered me.
sadness	emotional_events	I did not like it when a little girl was crying for her dead mother and was calling her by her name.  I was sad.
shame	emotional_events	I felt very ashamed at having got a book by force from a girl.
fear	emotional_events	My uncle was taken to the UTC for an operation as he had cancer.  There had been a lot of deaths of late - 3 out of every 4 operated.  I was scared for my uncle's life.
anger	emotional_events	I had planned to go to town with my friend at 1500 hours but she went for the registration and I waited for a good 1 and a 1/2 hours.  It was vital for me to go to town but I could not as it was she who had the money.  Finally I borrowed some money from friends and we went to town.  I was really angry with my friend.
sadness	emotional_events	I dreamt of my father's death while I was at secondary school.  I was screaming at the top of my voice and was woken up by my friend.  That day I was really sad.
shame	emotional_events	We were at a party, this guy I liked and me.  I really loved him and gathered enough courage to ask him to kiss me.  He did not do it but instead asked me what I would like for my birthday.  I told him that I would like a kiss more than anything else but he excused himself and said that it was impossible.  I really felt embarassed.
fear	emotional_events	When I met an elephant in the bush.
anger	emotional_events	When someone took my pen away.
sadness	emotional_events	When my cousin passed away during the holidays at home.  He fell ill at night and the next day he died in the evening.
shame	emotional_events	I do not have accomodation on the campus so I stay with my extended family, one young man used bad words while asking me to leave their home.
fear	emotional_events	When I was walking around all alone at night.
anger	emotional_events	Being made to look like a fool by a girl.
sadness	emotional_events	When my dad passed away.
shame	emotional_events	Getting very low marks in mathematics.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to walk along a dark road alone.
anger	emotional_events	When I was locked out of my room by my room-mate's friend.
sadness	emotional_events	When I failed one of my courses at school - the university of Zambia.
shame	emotional_events	When I swindled money out of someone.
fear	emotional_events	When my neighbour's house was broken into and shots could be heard.
anger	emotional_events	When a thief broke into my house and stole some valuable goods.
sadness	emotional_events	The death of my guardian with whom I had stayed when I did my grade six.
shame	emotional_events	When a woman who I respected very much was made pregnant, unexpectedly by a man of a caliber I never expected.
fear	emotional_events	My father had been involved in a car accident two years ago.  I was then very scared thinking that he would die as he lay unconscious in hospital for two weeks.
anger	emotional_events	I felt very angry when a mishanga seller robbed me of the transport money I had to go to school.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when a friend of mine failed the final exam and she could not be accepted at the institution of learning.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed when my friend and I were cross with each other till we apologized to each other.
fear	emotional_events	In 1960,  I was going to a school which was near my village and I met a lion on the way, which disappeared suddenly.
anger	emotional_events	When my wife told me that the refrigerator had stopped working.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard of the death of my mother.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed one of the first year's courses.
fear	emotional_events	In 1977 when my friend was caught by a crocodile.  We were swimming in a river on whose banks our primary school was situated.  When my friend was caught, he was on the banks of the river and some of us were still in the middle of the river.  I was very frightened.
anger	emotional_events	In 1982, I was annoyed at an uncle who was drunk and was beating up his old father.  He claimed that the father was responsible for his guardian's failure.
sadness	emotional_events	Last academic year I received bad news - my grand-uncle had passed away.  I felt lonely and bad because apart from the         biological ties, he was a good old friend of mine at home.
shame	emotional_events	A few years back I had proposed love to a girl who later turned out to be related to me.  Though we were in love with each other, we both felt ashamed and withdrew from each other.
fear	emotional_events	When I learnt that the girl I had impregnated was in hospital and was on the verge of dying as she had refused to accept the responsibility of her pregnancy and had wanted to commit suicide.
anger	emotional_events	When I got home I found that the electrical supply had been disconnected despite my having paid ZESCO the full bill a few  days earlier.
sadness	emotional_events	When I lost my grandmother.  She had been my guardian after the death of my father.
shame	emotional_events	When I told a girl that I could not take her out that night as I was entertaining my mother who had come from home.  However, I later met this girl with another girlfriend at a hostel where I had taken out another girlfriend of mine.
fear	emotional_events	When burglars with guns forced themselves into my house and ordered me to give them money or face death.
anger	emotional_events	When my colleague spat on my face after a quarrel.
sadness	emotional_events	When my elder brother died.
shame	emotional_events	When I was taken to the place where my uncle had defecated in his pants after having drunk beer.
fear	emotional_events	Whhen the front tyre of the car burst.
anger	emotional_events	When I was insulted by a fellow student.
sadness	emotional_events	When the girl I loved turned me down.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed grade 7.
fear	emotional_events	I was working at a certain place and everyday after work dad would come to pick me up.  One day he did not come, it started getting very dark and I had no money on me and my home was very, very far away.
anger	emotional_events	One day I had an appointment with my boyfriend which I had objected to in the begining, however he visited me and convinced me to come.  The day of the appointment; I had to wait for him for over an hour.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother passed away.  We had been waiting for it as she had been sick for years, but when it happened I found it hard to accept.
shame	emotional_events	When I realized that I was pregnant.  I thought about what my relatives and friends would think about me and I felt a lot of self pity.
fear	emotional_events	Last night, I dreamt that things that looked like monsters were trying to kiss me.
anger	emotional_events	One of my colleagues accused me of having stolen his iron and I was sure that I had done no such thing.
sadness	emotional_events	The passing away of my mum.
shame	emotional_events	About a dozen girls laughed at me and I was sure that there was nothing wrong with me.
fear	emotional_events	The time I drove my uncle's car, without having asked for his permission.  It was the first time that I was driving a car.
anger	emotional_events	When my kid brother broke my reading spectacles.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mum's brother passed away after having been involved in a car accident.   He was bringing me a present as I had passed my form five exams with flying colours.
shame	emotional_events	When my mum learnt that I had beaten up someone in a fight.
fear	emotional_events	When I was at a boarding school at Lusaka, the Rhodesian soldiers came to bomb a house near our school and we saw the whole scene.
anger	emotional_events	A very close friend of mine was refused entrance to the medical school.  Her grades were very good and she should not have been left out.  Biased judgment !
sadness	emotional_events	My sister lost one of her twin sons (my first nephews) and then the older one died a week later.
shame	emotional_events	I insulted two of my friends because I thought that had been gossiping about me right under my nose, however I later found out that they were not doing so.
fear	emotional_events	When my neighbour's life was threatened by someone who was trying to break into his house.
anger	emotional_events	When a boy who was drunk came into my room and misbehaved in the presence of my boyfriend.
sadness	emotional_events	My father resigned from work, and soon after this his elder brother died.  The next day my granny died (my mother's mother).  My dad remains the only living member of his family.
shame	emotional_events	When I went to the library three weeks after it had opened and found that everyone was busy.
fear	emotional_events	One evening when my sisters, brothers and I were watching T.V my kid brother took a big mirror and reflected light on the french windows.  I thought that these lights that we could see were coming from torches annd that it meant that there were thieves outside.
anger	emotional_events	Some people were sitting outside and saying things which were not really true.
sadness	emotional_events	A break-up with someone I really liked.
shame	emotional_events	I was wearing a slit tight dress at a disco and it burst open.
fear	emotional_events	When I witnessed a bus accident in which a bus, full of passengers,  nearly overturned on the Lusaka-Kabwe road.á
anger	emotional_events	When my sister came home late one day and thus disobeyed my parents.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard the news of my grandfather's sudden death.
shame	emotional_events	When my younger sister, who was then 16 years old, was pregnant.
fear	emotional_events	I got a very nasty electrical shock when I was tampering with some electrical applainces.á
anger	emotional_events	When I was subjected to a very nasty joke by a group of friends.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received my results and found out that I could not go to a school of my choice.
shame	emotional_events	I took a girl out once and discovered that she was going around with one of my close friends.
fear	emotional_events	When I thought that I had failed the examination.
anger	emotional_events	When I discovered that my girlfriend was going around with another boy.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the grade 7.
fear	emotional_events	The day I was nearly stabbed to death by ruffians who wanted to take my money.  I refused to give them any money and they started running after me, I ran into somebody else's house to save myself.
anger	emotional_events	When a kid dropped my father's radio cassette player, which he had just repaired.
sadness	emotional_events	When someone I love told me that she did not love me anymore and that she wanted all the snaps that she had given me in exchange for the ones I had given her.
shame	emotional_events	When I told a lie to a friend of my sister on April fool's day.  She later came to see me and told me that it was a very foolish thing to do.
fear	emotional_events	When thieves broke into my house at night and held my wife and me on gun-point for at least ten minutes and took away a lot of property.
anger	emotional_events	When I was beaten up by thieves on behalf of some friends of mine as they thought that I had a lot of money and would not part with a few coins for their drinks.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received the news that my in-laws had passed away.  I depended heavily on them for their guidance and the running of their daughter's buisness.
shame	emotional_events	When I lied to my wife and told her that I was going to the Copperbelt on a buisness trip, she later found me in a hotel with a girlfriend.
fear	emotional_events	I was at home and we were sleeping when we heard some robbers breaking into our house.
anger	emotional_events	A certain boy came into my room and started telling me that I was not pretty, that I had no manners and that I should learn some.  I had just come to campus and he was in fourth year.
sadness	emotional_events	My elder sister whom I love very much was leaving for the          West Indies for two years and I was staying behind.
shame	emotional_events	I took an exam which I failed terribly as I had not studied.
shame	emotional_events	The day I learnt that my girlfriend had been going around with  a close friend of mine.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid when I learnt that my father was seriously ill in hospital.
anger	emotional_events	When I met my new girlfriend with another man in the street.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt that my brother-in-law had been poisoned by his friends and that he was dead.
shame	emotional_events	When money was stolen from my pocket.
fear	emotional_events	When the robbers broke in, at night.
anger	emotional_events	I wrote an assignment and was given less marks than a friend with whom I had previously discussed the assignment.
sadness	emotional_events	When I got a message that my child was not feeling well.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in grade one, one day I felt like going to the toilet during class but I was very scared of the teacher so I urinated in the class.
fear	emotional_events	The day my parents were involved in a car accident and had to be operated  and before the operation the doctor said that it was mater of life or death.
anger	emotional_events	I got into an argument with a photographer for whom I had to pose twelve times, over  a period of four weeks, before I could get a snap of mine.  Every time the film was processed my snap did not come out although the others did.
sadness	emotional_events	I was sad at the expulsion of some of my comrades during the UNZA demonstrations.
shame	emotional_events	I had a feeling of shame when I found myself unable to answer some questions from my tutor simply because of a lack of preparation.
fear	emotional_events	This last August when my parents dropped me off and moved me into college I didn't know anybody here; I was 17 and Berkeley really scared me.
anger	emotional_events	When I found my boyfriend, who I had been dating for a year, at another girl's house. We had had previous conflicts concerning the girl, but he had always claimed they were just friends.
sadness	emotional_events	The same as for SHAME and DISGUST. I was asked to resign my sorority which I did because I was ashamed.
shame	emotional_events	On a road trip with a group of sorority and fraternity people, I became intoxicated and basically raped. I don't remember the actual event, but I know the feeling that I experienced later.
fear	emotional_events	Whenever I think of enrolling in Organic Chemistry.
anger	emotional_events	I saw in a movie a block on which affluence and poverty existed. I saw that the rich made no attempts to help the poor.
sadness	emotional_events	When I felt powerless to help the poor or when I don't know how to.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking home from a place on southside and I live on Northside and I was followed. I headed my most direct route.
anger	emotional_events	Someone signed up for a workshift at the co-op where I live and she did not want to work the switchboard. I became very angry. She had mentioned earlier that she wanted and needed the workshift to me so I did not sign up.
sadness	emotional_events	I did not do as well as I expected on a chemistry exam. I received a score below the average and I thought I had done very well.
shame	emotional_events	Every time I was around this one person I would stick my foot in my mouth by being nasty. One time I accidently said something fairly cruel that was totally inappropriate.
fear	emotional_events	I was river rafting in Nev. and our boat tipped over and I was sucked under in to some rocks and got stuck and all I could think was that I was going to die. And it was so quiet under the water it seemed like no one would care or remember.
anger	emotional_events	One of my first boyfriends got mad at me because a lot of my close friends were guys and he didn't want me to see them anymore because he was jealous.
sadness	emotional_events	I was watching a sunset after my latest boyfriend left me and I realized that we would never watch sunsets again, probaly never see eachother again and none of it mattered.
shame	emotional_events	My third grade teacher caught me cheating on a spelling test. I couldn't spell Australia and she said in a loud voice something like \We don't have cheaters in my class\"."
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear when my friend and I broke into an abandoned military base in Los Angeles this summer. I feared because I didn't want to be caught.
anger	emotional_events	I experienced anger most recently when I had committed a sin which I had gone a week and a half without doing. I had made a vow to God and had blown it. Now I had to start all over.
sadness	emotional_events	I last really felt sad when I left home for I was leaving all my long time, pre-kindergarten relationships behind.
shame	emotional_events	When I just took a shower with a girl down the hall. I felt that I had let my devotion to God go out the window. Although nothig happened I felt ashamed.
anger	emotional_events	A few weeks back, as I was in a hurry to leave the house, I left some of my things lying around.  This is something I never do. My uncle,who lives with us, as we live in a joint family, remarked that we were always doing things like  this.  This really got me mad.
sadness	emotional_events	When I took the B.A exams,I was expecting a 1st class even though I had not done very well. When the results came out I felt sad as I had missed the 1st class by 12 marks.
shame	emotional_events	A friend of mine had said something about not liking to come to my place just before coming to my place.   In the meanwhile I got to learn about this from another friend of mine and when she arrived at my place I really treated her badly.  I was later ashamed of the way I had treated someone when the person was at my place.
fear	emotional_events	I was scared of water when I was a child.
anger	emotional_events	When I get home late my father scolds me and this makes me angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When my aunt died.
shame	emotional_events	When I got 1 mark in an Abnormal Psychology exam.
fear	emotional_events	When I dreamt that my family was in trouble and was facing many difficulties.
anger	emotional_events	When my brother got very low marks in the exams, I was very angry. I put my studies aside to help him, as every time my brother does  badly at school, my family members blame me as well.á á
sadness	emotional_events	[ When family mmembers or friends blame me for something I am not responsible for.  I feel very sad as it was not my fault.]
shame	emotional_events	During a class I was asked a question which I did not hear very clearly, so I gave an answer which was not related to the question and everyone started laughing at me.
fear	emotional_events	Once I woke up in the middle of the night and felt frightened as everyone else was sleeping and I could not even go to their room.
anger	emotional_events	[ It irritates me when people talk about me behind my back.  I    prefer people to tell me what they have to, on my face instead of talking behind my back.]
sadness	emotional_events	[ When friends and colleagues talk bad about me.]
shame	emotional_events	[ When I acted against my mind or conscious.]
fear	emotional_events	Once I was caught by thugs aged between 20-35, they asked me to surrender all the property I had and I remember feeling very scared.
anger	emotional_events	One night we, all the family members, were sitting in the front corridor of the house when a gentleman looking person came in.  He was my father's client and he had come to bribe my father in connection with the proceeding case.  At my father's refusal he abused my father, my brother and I could not control our temper and we rushed at him.
sadness	emotional_events	Once my friend and I got into into a hot discussion on a very controversial topic.  At one point of the argument I disagreed with her totally and I took what she was saying as an insult.  So I couter-argued and unknowingly hurt her emotionally, I felt very sad about this.
shame	emotional_events	[ Never felt the emotion.]
fear	emotional_events	When I lost a wallet while travelling, since it belonged to the group I was very afraid.
anger	emotional_events	When a person whom I had invited did not come on the appointed day and time.
sadness	emotional_events	I tried my level best to care for my client, I took an appointment with a doctor and before meeting the doctor he expired - a poor small boy from Uttar Pradesh.
shame	emotional_events	I was misbehaving in the agency.
fear	emotional_events	When going to the exam.
anger	emotional_events	[ When I do not get any co-operation from my friends/partners.]
sadness	emotional_events	When my brother's visa for the U.S.A got cancelled.
fear	emotional_events	When our school was raided by the pupils of the boys secondary school who beat us up.
anger	emotional_events	When my room-mate locked up the keys of my room in our room after I had told her that I was  only in the bathroom having a shower.  She left and I had to do without supper.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received the news that my beloved grandmother had died.  I was at the boarding school and was only 13 years old.
shame	emotional_events	When I blurted out an answer in class without having been asked to do so.  The teacher told me that it was bad manners to do so.
fear	emotional_events	During the last academic year i.e 1983/1984 just before the closure, we were surrounded and threatened by the paramilitary forces.
anger	emotional_events	When someone I trusted very much, disappointed me.
sadness	emotional_events	When a close friend of mine who was with me in first year could not make it to the second year.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed one of the tests because I had not worked hard enough.
fear	emotional_events	The first day that I was close to a dead body, in my third year at UNZA, school of medicine.
anger	emotional_events	A few monthe ago, when my brother's wife told me that I had bad manners.  To make matters worse she did not let me use their telephone as she only allowed people of her own tribe.
sadness	emotional_events	When I got to know that my father had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was saying bad things about a man I had never seen.  I was with a friend and did not know that she was related to this man.  My friend did not tell me about it and I discovered this myself.
fear	emotional_events	When mother was very ill, I feared that she would die.
anger	emotional_events	When a boy, who was drunk, insulted me in front of a crowd.  I was stopped from punching him for it.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard the news that my brother had passed away.  It was the first time that I lost a brother.
shame	emotional_events	When my first sexual intercourse turned out to be a flop.  I was in a panic and ended up without an erection.
fear	emotional_events	We were driving on a very dusty road at night and the driver tried to overtake a very big truck only to find another big truck parked right in front.
anger	emotional_events	I had gone on a vacation and my mother left home without leaving me any thing - money to come back to school.
sadness	emotional_events	I remember being sad whe my aunt's child died (2 days old).
shame	emotional_events	I was about to share lunch with my aunt's husband when she told me that I would have to wait and eat with my cousins.
fear	emotional_events	A friend gave me a lift and we met a road-block.  He tried  to turn back when an officer shouted at us to stop.  My friend took a turn suddenly and the officer raised his gun but by the time we were gone.
anger	emotional_events	I had worked very hard during my vacations to raise some money for a few major items (e.g a radio).  but when I arrived at the inter-city bus terminal, my hard earned money had been stolen from me.
sadness	emotional_events	My younger brother and sister were involved in an accident on their way back from school and my brother was quite badly hurt.
shame	emotional_events	I had a misunderstanding with my father and after some time I found that I had been wrong.
fear	emotional_events	I was so sick that my relatives thought that I was bewitched.  I felt like dying.
anger	emotional_events	When my girlfriend left me to go out with another guy, even though she knew that she was wrong.
sadness	emotional_events	When my girl went away for a holiday without saying good-bye to me.
shame	emotional_events	When I bought new clothes and put them on.
fear	emotional_events	When I went to my first dental appointment.
anger	emotional_events	When my father banned me from going to his sister's home due to some misunderstanding between the two.
sadness	emotional_events	When my girlfriend was afraid and anxious the day before taking her exam.
shame	emotional_events	When I did not inform my friends of my forthcoming birthday.
fear	emotional_events	When I entered the dissecting room for the anatomy class and saw several dead bodies lying on the benches.
anger	emotional_events	I was in love with a very beautiful girl and when I went back for my holidays I found her wth another guy who she said was just a friend.  Later I found them together and was convinced that there was something fishy.
sadness	emotional_events	When I went to see the dead body of my uncle.  This was a very dramatic expreience as it was the first time that I entered a mortuary.
shame	emotional_events	When the brother-in-law of a girlfriend of mine found us in a bedroom with clothes and panties spread all over the place.
fear	emotional_events	When I entered the dissection room for the first time and was exposed to preserved dead human bodies.
anger	emotional_events	When I learnt that my younger sister had been expelled from secondary school because she was pregnant.  That was the second time that this happened in the family - the first time it had been my elder sister.
sadness	emotional_events	When I realized that I was in hospital after a car accident and that I had a scleral tear in my left eye.
shame	emotional_events	When I did not do well in the PG310 test I, I got only 4 marks above the pass marks despite my effort.  I felt bad because quite a number of friends did better.
fear	emotional_events	When the time came for me to see dead bodies and to operate on them.
anger	emotional_events	When I was accused of having planned my friend's outing at secondary school (boarding) as we were not allowed to go out.
sadness	emotional_events	When I realized the burden it was for my mother to look after all of us, all by herself.
shame	emotional_events	When I blamed my failure to the bias and favouritism in the        marking system, in fact I had not worked hard enough.
fear	emotional_events	When I took the first year university exams and made a lot of mistakes in the P110 exam.  I was afraid of failing and thus being unable to go to the school of medicine.
anger	emotional_events	When my brother-in-law's brother stole my clothes when my brother-in-law and I had gone to cut wood for the fire.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my father had been involved in a car accident in Lusaka.  This happened when he had gone to get the car which had been stolen in Lusaka.
shame	emotional_events	When my darling found me walking hand in hand with another girl whom I loved also.
fear	emotional_events	When I was chased by a big dog near my house.
anger	emotional_events	Being hooted at when I was learning to drive.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died - having to see my mother weep.
shame	emotional_events	When I had to walk home from the bus-stop in a skirt that I had soiled.  It drew a lot of attention and they all seemed to want to see the blood stains.
fear	emotional_events	When my mother was seriously ill and had to be admitted to the hospital.
anger	emotional_events	When someone took my things without having asked for my permission.
sadness	emotional_events	When my father passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When I did something naughty and it lead to the embarrassment of my parents.
fear	emotional_events	While drinking a soft drink, I had the impression of swallowing   a piece of glass so I went to the district hospital and got admitted there.
anger	emotional_events	When my room-mate was making noise deliberately, by playing a flute early in the morning while I was trying to study.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother passed away.
shame	emotional_events	One morning after breakfast I was still not satisfied.  My nephew (a small boy of 2) had not eaten his breakfast and just when I was taking a bit of his share someone walked in.
fear	emotional_events	When my father was involved in an accident.
anger	emotional_events	When a few girls were talking rubbish about me.
sadness	emotional_events	When my beloved uncle was shot dead by relatives.
shame	emotional_events	When my sister became pregnant at UNZA last year.
fear	emotional_events	When I was first exposed to the dead bodies, for dissecting        purposes at the school of medicine.
anger	emotional_events	When our government decided to withdraw student allowances as it was one of the conditions imposed by the IMF. á
sadness	emotional_events	When my father was imprisoned for burning the house of his younger brother.
shame	emotional_events	When I contacted a sexually transmitted disease and the lecturer came to know about it as it was he who treated me for it.
fear	emotional_events	When I was about to be bitten by my friend's dog, later on it bit me.
anger	emotional_events	When I heard that an acquaintance of mine was spreading rumours about my affair with a close friend.
sadness	emotional_events	When a close friend of mine collapsed and passed away and the illness was not known.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the grade seven exams.
fear	emotional_events	When I was going home for my holiday, I almost drowned in the Zambezi river.
anger	emotional_events	When the paramilitary was sent to the UNZA and it started using tear gas and started intimidating the students without any provocation.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	When my cousin's wife refused him sex and claimed that she was my girllfriend.  I think that there is something wrong with the woman as I have never even thought of having sex with her.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking along the passage to my room (very near the anatomy laboratory) and I heard something and felt that there was some thing behind me.  I looked back and there was no one.  I started imagining that maybe it was a corpse.
anger	emotional_events	In form three we were taking our mock exams and someone else (a friend) was making noise when the examinateur picked on me and said that he would tear up my answer sheet.  I got very angry with the girls involved.
sadness	emotional_events	When my brother (5th in the family) passed away.
shame	emotional_events	As a young girl in form I, I wet my bed one day at the boarding school and many girls came to see the person who had done it as I had to take my mattress out that day.
fear	emotional_events	When my sister was very ill and was admitted to the hospital.
anger	emotional_events	When my father failed to send me transport money after the closure of the school.
sadness	emotional_events	When my parents separated temporarily and I was left behind with my father.  As I loved my mother I wanted to go with her.
shame	emotional_events	When I was hungry, I tried to take the money that my mother had saved up for something else.
fear	emotional_events	The first time that I saw a dead person.  This was when I started my gross anatomy practicals.
anger	emotional_events	I once failed a test miserably and my friend did very well and someone made a nasty comment while comparing me to my friend.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine got pregnant anf failed the first year at university.  The boyfriend refused his responsibility and they ended up in court.
shame	emotional_events	During my childhood I once lied and my sister found out.
fear	emotional_events	When I was left alone at home one night by my brother.
anger	emotional_events	The government's announcement of the withdrawal of the student allowances in 1984.
sadness	emotional_events	When I first suffered from syphilis.
shame	emotional_events	Lying to my cousin about the form five examination fees.
fear	emotional_events	When I was first taken to the dissection room where I found 10 dead human bodies.
anger	emotional_events	I was really angry when the President general of UNZASU was arrested by policemen.
sadness	emotional_events	When one of my closest friends failed to make it to the third year of university.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to talk to some strangers, from whom I was expecting a negative answer.
anger	emotional_events	[ When some difference of opinion occurs in a silly situation.]  á
sadness	emotional_events	I wanted something in particular and did not get it, also there was no possibility of getting it.
shame	emotional_events	[ I feel shame when I do not arrive on time and others have to wait for me for a long time.]
fear	emotional_events	When I saw the movie \Poltergist\"."
anger	emotional_events	When my mother scolded me for coming home late, i.e after 7 P.M.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	[ I have not felt this emotion in my life.]
fear	emotional_events	[ While approaching to test the situation.]
anger	emotional_events	When my boyfriend told me that it would be difficult for him to marry me.
sadness	emotional_events	When I left my part-time job.
shame	emotional_events	When an intimate friend of mine passed B.A with first class and I got only pass class.
shame	emotional_events	Failing in the English language exam.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out about people can go mad for social reasons.
anger	emotional_events	Someone borrowed my textbook and deliberately did not return it.
sadness	emotional_events	I like someone who does not like me and was rude to me.
shame	emotional_events	My article not chosen by the college newspaper
fear	emotional_events	A relative died.
anger	emotional_events	Bad food in the students' dining hall.
sadness	emotional_events	Could not get into the university I wanted to get in.
shame	emotional_events	Meeting other friends who got in the good universities.
fear	emotional_events	Before the first examn.
anger	emotional_events	Someone messing up the room we share.
sadness	emotional_events	My best friend could not get into university.
shame	emotional_events	Not chosen for all English classes.
fear	emotional_events	Being threatened by another person.
anger	emotional_events	Insulted by the class leader.
sadness	emotional_events	Saying goodbye to a friend.
shame	emotional_events	Not doing well in the examn.
fear	emotional_events	Got ill.
anger	emotional_events	Tripped on a busy street.
sadness	emotional_events	A child beaten up by his mother.
shame	emotional_events	Failing an examn.
fear	emotional_events	Saw a snake unexpectedly.
anger	emotional_events	Seeing this badly made questionnaire.
sadness	emotional_events	You ignored the fact that we could not hear you at the back.
shame	emotional_events	Failing an examn.
fear	emotional_events	Someone frightened me in the dark.
anger	emotional_events	People having a football match outside the window during the lecture.
sadness	emotional_events	China can not even give you good sound systems for an open lecture.
shame	emotional_events	Not being able to hand in homework in time.
fear	emotional_events	Heard some ghost-like noise at night.
anger	emotional_events	A father helping his kid to fight other kids.
sadness	emotional_events	A father of 4 children killed in an accident.
shame	emotional_events	When I was caught with someone's daughter.
fear	emotional_events	When I was watching a movie in which there was a pit full of dangers and there was only a small safe place on which a man was standing; he had to catch the lady who was thrown in or else ! The pit was 20 feet deep.
anger	emotional_events	My mother and my sister carried on picking at me all day long for no reason at all and I ended up getting angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When my boyfriend almost had a relationship with a close friend of mine.
shame	emotional_events	I told a lie about someone to someone else and they found out   and questioned me about it.
shame	emotional_events	I was complaining about calling people whom I didn't know. I forgot that the purpose is to invite people for dinner and get to know them.
fear	emotional_events	English papers are due on Friday. They are returned on Tuesday. This Tuesday I was afraid to go to class and get my paper because I knew it was bad.
anger	emotional_events	A friend of mine came to visit and stayed with my roommate and me. My roommate and she became good friends. After she left, he didn't talk too highly of her.
sadness	emotional_events	After receiving the grade on the paper mentioned in FEAR.
shame	emotional_events	After the car accident in GUILT.
fear	emotional_events	Fear of doing well on a midterm.
anger	emotional_events	I felt anger at my roommate due to his habit of leaving dirty dishes in the sink and generally not cleaning after himself.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother after staying with us for awhile went back home.
shame	emotional_events	I felt shame when I saw someone I knew and pretended not to see her. Later she saw me and said hi.
fear	emotional_events	Housesitting and hearing the alarm go off. I knew someone had to be breaking in. I called the police and was panicking while on the phone. It was awful. It turns out that I stepped on the hidden alarm without prior knowledge of its existance.
anger	emotional_events	Going to Cowell Hospital and finding out tediously that I had a stress fracture. The anger came when the senile doctors found out 4 weeks later that I had 2 stress fractures in one foot and should have had crutches. I was in distinct pain and barely could walk to classes. They said it would be better in 2 weeks.
sadness	emotional_events	Losing my job that I had for 4 summers. I took it personally and cried for 6 hours off and on. I wanted to hide away and did for a few days.
shame	emotional_events	I borrowed a gold bracelet without the girl's knowledge. I had it for so long I had to keep it. To this day I feel ashamed at myself for having it. I never wear the thing anymore.
fear	emotional_events	After my shoulder operation, I woke up in the hospital room alone. I was in pain and was still under heavy medications. I could not find my parents.
anger	emotional_events	When I found out my cousin had been killed. I was angry at the world, and her murderer who was her ex-boyfriend. It was the worst and most hateful day of my life.
sadness	emotional_events	I spent a weekend in San Diego visiting my boyfriend Rob. We were at the airport and my plane was just about so leave. After saying goodbye, I boarded the plane. It was the hardest thing to do and it was a sad trip home.
shame	emotional_events	Since I've been here I haven't written to any of my relatives. I got a letter from my mom telling me how upset my grandparents are from not hearing from me.
fear	emotional_events	A man in a car was following me when I went running early one morning in a fairly secluded area.
anger	emotional_events	I caught a \peeping tom\" at my window when I was getting á|undressed."
sadness	emotional_events	Saying goodbye at the airport to my boyfriend who has to go to school back East. We are very close and have been together 4 years.
shame	emotional_events	I was wearing a short skirt one day and someone told me my underwear was showing.
fear	emotional_events	At age 10 my foster grandmother died, I had a fear of dying.
anger	emotional_events	I am currently taking CS 50P. I had to finish a couple of assignments but I was hindered because I could not get a passing score on my program.
sadness	emotional_events	The girl I was seeing didn't want to have a serious relationship. á
shame	emotional_events	One night a friend found out that I dumped one girl for another and he proceded to lecture me.
fear	emotional_events	I was driving and stopped at a stop light. I was planning to make a right turn as soon as it was clear. It was clear on the left so I started but a man was just in front of the car.
anger	emotional_events	During a dance someone slashed my tires and dumped paint on my car. I had four other friends with me that I drove and furthermore it was raining.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was trying for a girl who I really liked and cared for and thought she felt the same way too. But she didn't like the idea and just wanted to stay friends.
shame	emotional_events	I took my math midterm and got it back the following Wednesday in class. It was a totally low grade.
fear	emotional_events	I confronted a bigger person than I and almost got into a fight.
anger	emotional_events	I was called racial slurs behind my back.
sadness	emotional_events	My grandmother died during Christmas break several years ago.
shame	emotional_events	When given responsibility to grade papers in elementary school, I cheated a little and graded my own higher.
fear	emotional_events	Alone in the house (late 8pm) I heard noises. Sounded like someone was trying to get in our back door.
anger	emotional_events	A friend doesn't let me study when I want to. She doesn't feel I need to study and doesn't understand how important studying is to me. I get very angry with her.
sadness	emotional_events	Death of a pet rabbit. We had to give it away because my brother became allergic to it. We gave it to a man who kept animals and lots of other animals for children to watch. We went to visit our rabbit. It was badly beaten by the other rabbits and eventually died.
shame	emotional_events	When I sat in the wrong discussion section in the beginning of the semester. I insisted on being in the right section and the TA's list should have included my name. When I found out that I was in the wrong, I apologized, turned red and left.
fear	emotional_events	Going to take my driving test.
anger	emotional_events	I came home one day and discovered that my sister had borrowed my car and had gotten into an accident with it. My entire front bumper was destroyed.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard the news that my grandfather had died.
shame	emotional_events	When I purposely locked my babysitter out of the house at age 4 because I DIDN'T LIKE HER.
fear	emotional_events	A friend and I were going to have a study session together in which we quiz ourselves in biology material. Because I believed I didn't study enough. I feared I would fail.
anger	emotional_events	I live with my sister now and sometimes she angers me especially when she thinks I don't keep the apt. clean enough.
sadness	emotional_events	When I found out that I could not go to the concert (after buying the tickets) because of a biology test which occurred the morning after.
shame	emotional_events	When I get an exam back with a grade that I did not desire. Then I get mad at myself and say that I could have done better.
fear	emotional_events	During one year my mother almost had a nervous breakdown and my father had a serious operation. I was afraid that our family (4 kids, I'm the oldest) wouldn't hold together. Everything turned out fine.
anger	emotional_events	Last semester when I dated a girl whom I've known for almost a year. However one night she said she wanted us to be \just á|friends\". I confided this to a friend Jim I was really suffering. á|A month or two later he broke up with his old girlfriend and they á|started going out regularly. I have no girlfriend nor have I had á|a romantic relationship of any significance. I feel some anger á|but we are friends again."
sadness	emotional_events	When I was a Sr. in HS. one of the class counselors died of hepatitis. She was very sensitive. She knew my shyness and drew me out to improve myself image. I missed her funeral - so I could not publically grieve. My parents didn't understand.
shame	emotional_events	I was angry about 3 months ago and I kicked backwards against the wall. It caved in and so I had to show it to my parents. I had been angry after my mother said something to me about not being able to find clothes in my size - something that I'm sensitive about. (6' 5'' 210)
fear	emotional_events	Getting back my Psych 140 midterm.
anger	emotional_events	My roommate leaving my drawers in a mess after plowing thourgh them looking for something.
sadness	emotional_events	My friend who was in the Bago was kicked out of the sorority.
shame	emotional_events	When I lied to my best friend about a boy she really liked but he didn't like her. I told her he did and she bugged him for a long time embarrassing herself.
fear	emotional_events	A certain night during initiation.
anger	emotional_events	When someone threw a firecracker into my room at 7:00 am in the morning.
sadness	emotional_events	A close friend of the family died.
shame	emotional_events	Not doing my share of the work for the house job.
fear	emotional_events	I could not do the questions on my math midterm.
anger	emotional_events	I was supposed to meet my girlfriend at a pre-arranged place but it took me an hour to find her.
sadness	emotional_events	My grandmother died over the summer. I knew her very well, she baked great biscuits. She was in the hospital but expected to improve and go home soon. She died in her sleep.
shame	emotional_events	My grand father caught me eating his private jelly bean supply.
fear	emotional_events	When I was going to bring back my girlfriend to LA to meet my parents.
anger	emotional_events	When I found out that my good friend and roommate did not pay the phone bill and electric bill like he promised and let me down.
sadness	emotional_events	When I found out that my girlfriend would not be coming back to UCB for one semester, but would be living in San Jose.
shame	emotional_events	When I found out my roommate had been talking behind my back about very personal things.
fear	emotional_events	First day back on the job.
anger	emotional_events	When the person I'm having the affair with won't talk to me in public.
sadness	emotional_events	My roommate's sister committed suicide.
shame	emotional_events	Lying to my grandparents about visiting my boyfriend in Chico.
fear	emotional_events	When there was a bomb threat in Tolman Hall. This was the first time that I felt my life could be in danger.
anger	emotional_events	When people would tell me that my ex-girlfriend was playing around on me.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When I was 10, I got busted for stealing a candy-bar.
fear	emotional_events	My mom called early in the morning (On a Monday) and I had just seen her that weekend. I couldn't understand what could be so important as to make her call at such a strange hour. I missed the call and had to call her back that afternoon.
anger	emotional_events	My peers didn't want me to meet someone during rush for fear that I would give her a bad outlook on our Sororoty house. I shouldn't have seen this, but they blew and I did.
sadness	emotional_events	I was told that a friend of a friend committed suicide.
shame	emotional_events	My boat didn't win a race which we were favored to win.
fear	emotional_events	Upon reading a story on a serial killer by the name of Henry Lee Lucas who has been given the distinction of killing more people that any other man. I began to wonder if I should take more care for my safety.
anger	emotional_events	I had worked long and hard on a project when a friend inadvertantly destroyed it. I could not forgive him for a long time. And at times still get angry at him.
sadness	emotional_events	When a pet died. The pet was the closest friend I had for 15 years.
shame	emotional_events	Recently, some friends and I had too much to drink while on a foot-ball road trip to USC. We trashed our hotel room and I felt ashamed when the maid walked in the next morning.
fear	emotional_events	One summer when I was camping with friends they devised and elaborate plan to scare me by having our camp attecked by a wild animal (one of them) and then convincing the campground was the home of a satanic organization.
anger	emotional_events	I went out dancing and found my boyfriend kissing another girl.
sadness	emotional_events	At the end of my senior yr. in high school I found out that a friend of mine I knew had cancer had been diagnosed as terminally ill.
shame	emotional_events	I slipped on butter one evening in the Dining Commons landed on my rear causing my tray also to land on the floor.
fear	emotional_events	When I was little I lost control of my bike and started to go into a buay intersection but my neighbor stopped me just in time.
anger	emotional_events	This summer I got into a fight with one of our patrons (at a theatre). He hit me and I hit him and her friend, he hit my friend and we all hit eachother.
sadness	emotional_events	This monday I took a Math 1BS test and flunked for the second time.
shame	emotional_events	A month ago I turned in an English paper in late after I had already had a previous paper late and promised not to do it again.
fear	emotional_events	A time when I was very afraid of something was when I broke my father's antique lamp.
anger	emotional_events	When someone told a secret I told them not to tell.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother was very sick and almost died.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed some tests my first year at CAL.
fear	emotional_events	Walking through campus at night a squirrel jumped in front of me.
anger	emotional_events	After a long trip in my dad's van without incident I stopped to fill the tank with gas and dented the side of the van against the pole. Then my cars electrical system would not work when I tried to drive home from his house.
sadness	emotional_events	At one point in a relationship, my boyfriend was seeing an old flame more than me. At our confrontation tears were shed.
shame	emotional_events	I made an unkind remark about the ethnicity of some friends without realizing it.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to walk home in the dark for the first time.
anger	emotional_events	A time when, as part of my work, I was sent out actually sort of volunteered to run an errand for someone who had no authority to send me out and the address was very far especially on foot and turned out to be incorrect too. The whole trip was a waste.
sadness	emotional_events	When my boyfriend said he did not want to see me anymore (which turned out to be untrue).
shame	emotional_events	When I did poorly on a test and I knew that there wasn't an excuse for not doing better. Made mistakes I could not believe I made.
fear	emotional_events	When I began school at UC. The pre-enrollment the classes, and the question of success really scared me.
anger	emotional_events	A month ago when one of my fellow workers got a promotion over me. It was just a small promotion but recognition was involved.
sadness	emotional_events	When another fellow worker decided to leave the company. We had been very close and we would not be able to work with eachother any longer.
shame	emotional_events	When I had not been accepted to a college which I dreamed of going to. I felt that I had let myself and my parents down.
fear	emotional_events	One day before Christmas, I went shopping with my brother and his friend. We had a good time. But on the way home we were almost in an accident because the weather was bad.
anger	emotional_events	I can't remember being truly angry. Usually it's just disappointment that I feel. One situation would be with my brother. He and I used to be close but now he seems to be avoiding me.
sadness	emotional_events	4 years ago my family decided to move from New York to California. From the time we decided to move until the time we left, I realized how much my friends cared for me. When we left and for a long time after that I was very sad.
shame	emotional_events	The first time I slept at my boyfriends house and had to walk down the hall to the shower in front of his housemates. I felt they were judging me.
fear	emotional_events	after getting a fail notice for a math class, I realized I was not doing very well in school in any subject. I began to fear failing a class or two.
anger	emotional_events	Physically fighting with my girlfriend because she just walked out of a room of my friends and had pushed and cursed at me when I went to find her.
sadness	emotional_events	Hearing about a friend back home that had to have his stomach pumped because he had overdosed on pills.
shame	emotional_events	I had just masterbated with another boy.
fear	emotional_events	Going to CAL not knowing anyone.
anger	emotional_events	When a close friend did not write.
sadness	emotional_events	Leaving high school.
shame	emotional_events	Fooling around with this guy I did not know.
fear	emotional_events	Taking a chemistry midterm.
anger	emotional_events	While I was away for the weekend some friends went into my room and played my very expensive stereo without asking me or my roommate.
sadness	emotional_events	I asked a girl out on a date and she said no.
shame	emotional_events	I bought a possible answer to a homework problem which was completely inapplicable to the question due to my not having read about the subject matter.
fear	emotional_events	Waiting for my girlfriend to come from her apt. to mine. She was very late and I thought something awful had happened.
anger	emotional_events	I bought a new bed for my apt. and it squeaks when you move on it. I tried to fix it but could not.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that my grandfather had died. He lived in England and I had not seen him for 10 years.
shame	emotional_events	Doing poorly on an exam that I thought I should do well.
fear	emotional_events	I needed a recommendation for something. I decided that the best person to get one from was a professor who I had never talked to before. I felt a lot of fear going up after class to ask him to recommend me considering he had never heard my name before. But I did.
anger	emotional_events	I had been searching for housing for Fall at UCB and I was finally offered a place - then an ordeal followed, first I accepted then refused - related to my parents judgment (they're paying for me). Turns out that I was so upset at what my Dad said to me that I hung up on him. He called back and threatened to cut me off financially and emotionally.
sadness	emotional_events	We got news that my (almost) 21 years old brother died while visiting Europe of a cerebral hemorhage. It finally hit me an hour after we saw his corpse in the coffin. It felt like a door between himself and everything had closed and locked forever.
shame	emotional_events	The people on my floor last year were very close. This year 4 of our best friends live together in an apartment. My boyfriend and I dropped by on one of their birthdays and stayed for dinner. Two other people had already been invited and I felt uncomfortable and unwanted. Then I realized I was the one who always called them and they rarely call me.
fear	emotional_events	I was alone and someone tried to break in from our back door.
anger	emotional_events	When some friends betrayed my friendship.
sadness	emotional_events	When I did bad on a chamistry midterm which I could have done well.
shame	emotional_events	Defying my parents and staying out all night when I wasn't supposed to.
fear	emotional_events	Occured while preparing for a midterm in Social Welfare that I thought was going to be very hard and felt unprepared for.
anger	emotional_events	Argument with roommate over a lock he had put on kitchen cupboard without telling anyone.
sadness	emotional_events	Day time robbery of our house.
shame	emotional_events	Caught lying to my father about a speeding ticket I had received.
fear	emotional_events	Before I moved away from home, I feared leaving.
anger	emotional_events	When a friend carelessly broke and object in my parent's house and did not apologize, or pay, or anything.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sadness when my grandfather died.
shame	emotional_events	After a big fight with my parents.
fear	emotional_events	While skiing in Squaw Valley, I was riding up a chair lift and right when the chair was above a sheer cliff of rocks, the chair lift stopped and all the chairs sagged and everything seemed to creak loudly.
anger	emotional_events	I received a poor grade on a midterm even though I got all the right answers and knew the material. I went to the TA to try to raise my grade and he wouldn't do it.
sadness	emotional_events	My girlfriend wanted to breakup for an indefinite amt. of time. She said that she couldn't commit herself fully to the relationship without going out with other people. I was her first boyfriend.
shame	emotional_events	I went to bed with a girl and the next day she thought it was the start of something serious and I just thought it was fun and I told her I wasn't interested in starting a serious relationship.
fear	emotional_events	Being involved in a car accident and having my thumb caught in the glove compartment. My sister and I had a Fear of finally telling my parents, since my sister was the driver.
anger	emotional_events	A co-worker and I had to rush a project. I was only working there for one month and he for some years. Instead of letting me know that he wanted to do the project himself, he went to the superviser and let the superviser tell me to let the co-worker do it himself since he was quicker at it.
sadness	emotional_events	Losing a pet chick. Our family had just put the chick outside a few days before and then one morning it was gone.
shame	emotional_events	NO RESPONSE
fear	emotional_events	Two summers ago my best friend and I drove into unknown mountains at midnight to pick up my broken car. We told one another horrifically scary ghost/murder stories and succeeded in scaring eachother pretty well - even though somewhere in our heads we knew the fears were unjustified.
anger	emotional_events	I had just seen my pseudo-girlfriend and our conversation angered me greatly.
sadness	emotional_events	My grandfather died thirteen years ago.
shame	emotional_events	I borrowed $ 20.00 from a friend and paid him back much later than I had originally intended.
fear	emotional_events	I was to meet one of my friends (girl) at the library at 8:00 already dark. She would be walking alone. She was 45 minutes late but I kept waiting, calling her room and other places she could have been.
anger	emotional_events	While studying chemistry with a friend we became angry with eachother because we were both fed up.
sadness	emotional_events	I received a letter from my grandmother. She has obviusly suffered a lot from my grandfather's suffering health. She mentioned things she had gotten him and he would never use.
shame	emotional_events	I wanted my boyfriend to stay when he didn't. He stayed but when he left I felt ashamed because I should have let him leave when he wanted. I was too selfish.
fear	emotional_events	I was driving on to a busy freeway during rush hour and it was slightly raining. A diesel truck was coming very close behind me and I was close behind a pick-up. I changed lanes and barely hit the truck and ran a Honda of the road. I was scared to death to go back and see if I caused him to crash.
anger	emotional_events	I was really pissed when the Russians boycotted the '84 Olympics. I had anger towards them and Jimmy Crter. I was very anxious to see it.
sadness	emotional_events	It made me very sad to hear that some construction company was going to build houses on the beautiful hills by my house.
shame	emotional_events	I could have died when I was caught cheating on a test in high school. That was my first and last time.
fear	emotional_events	When  first came to CAL I went to a rally on Sproul and I later learned that the rally was conducted by the Moonie cult. They were taking pictures at the rally, so I was afraid that they would circulate the pictures and then kidnap people. I did not know how the cult worked. I was scared.
anger	emotional_events	When I was faced with writing an essay and I didn't want to do it I was angry that I had to write an essay and angry at myself for not having the time to write a good essay.
sadness	emotional_events	I ran a race for the CAL track team and I did terribly and then the coach said that I should sit out for the season. I felt really sad because I wasn't going to be able to run. It was something I always had done and now I couldn't do it anymore.
shame	emotional_events	I was supposed to go out with my girlfriend one Saturday night, but I got really drunk with some friends earlier that afternoon and evening. So, I totally forgot about going out with my girlfriend. She showed up the next day, and that was when I remembered.
fear	emotional_events	I feared that my dog's eye was infected too much. He had played around in the weeds and a foxtail had gotten under his eyelid. I took him to the vet and I feared that he may go blind because of the foxtail.
anger	emotional_events	One of my friends kept criticizing me about everything I did. I thought she was kidding, but later I found out that she was serious.
sadness	emotional_events	One of my relatives became seriously ill. I felt sad because I didn't know if she will ever be the same again.
shame	emotional_events	After taking a difficult midterm for one of my classes, I felt shame for not studying as much as I should have. I was ashamed of the results of the midterm.
fear	emotional_events	I was on this amusement park ride at Marriots Great America. It went way up in the air and then around and around. Heights are not my favorite spots in life.
anger	emotional_events	I typed up a letter for this physician at work. She didn't care for my style, even though she was not using correct English. I told her it was her letter and we would do it her way.
sadness	emotional_events	Recently, my sister-in-law's horse was poisoned by a plant and died. The horse was very obedient and exceptional with children.
shame	emotional_events	I had a test in the class and I had not adequately prepared myself. I didn't fare so well on the exam and I felt bad about it.
fear	emotional_events	I was physically assaulted and sexually abused about a year ago. Just the feeling that I might not get away intact, or even alive, produced fear.
anger	emotional_events	My boyfriend breaking up with me about 7 months after I had an abortion. Just the fact that he was ignoring me and continued to do so.
sadness	emotional_events	My nephew's mother just left one day (my brother and she were not married). My nephew, Anthony, was shaken. I was sad for him because a similar situation happened to me.
shame	emotional_events	I tried after months to begin talking to my boyfriend again. He ignored me. I felt I had lowered my pride and became his \doormat\"."
fear	emotional_events	My apartment has had three robberies in the last month. The guy upstairs just got robbed making it the fourth.
anger	emotional_events	When my roommate's boyfriend assaulted me. He was threatening me, calling me names and pushing me around.
sadness	emotional_events	I was going to go on a vacation to Texas this summer but was unable to go because of registration.
shame	emotional_events	When I dated my friend's boyfriend after they had broken up.
fear	emotional_events	When my exboyfriend threw me around the dorms because I was talking on the phone to another guy of whom he was jealous, after we had an argument in which I thought we broke up.
anger	emotional_events	When someone tried to rape one of my best friends and he claimed it was her fault. He the hassled her, claimed she was loose, and threatened to sue her.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother kicked my surrogate father out and he in turn did not care for the dog, Afthur, he bought for the family. His lack of concern lead tho Arthur's death on the freeway. I loved Arthur like a brother. He was easy to talk to.
shame	emotional_events	The fact that I was pregnant. I was always considered level headed and did not have sex until 18 and out of high school.
fear	emotional_events	When I walked to church with my roommate, a bum told us to call the police and he started following us.
anger	emotional_events	When my roommate's moped was stolen I was very angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard my grandfather's wife had leukemia I was very sad.
shame	emotional_events	The same for guilt would apply.
fear	emotional_events	In the recent lightning storm, bolts of lightning were hitting close by (1/8 mile). I was in bed at the time and was afraid I might be struck.
anger	emotional_events	We are repainting rooms in my house. My mother started to enact plans to paint my room without consulting me.
sadness	emotional_events	Recent break-up with my girlfriend. We had been together for over a year. I was overseas and discovered over the phone (while I was at work).
shame	emotional_events	I came home from school very keyed up. At the dinner table I unfortunately unloaded a lot of my hostility off on one of my parents. I'm ashamed that I didn't dispate and control these feelings before coming to the table or even let the energy build up in the first place.
fear	emotional_events	While swimming, I hit my head at the bottom of the pool and required stitches. I later learned that the consequences could have been much more severe and that terrified me.
anger	emotional_events	I was rushing home from school because there was a 49er game that night. I got into a non-injury accident, which was all my fault, but destroyed the front of my car. The truck I hit was undamaged.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learned that my dad had cancer. I knew he was going to the hospital for some tests. My mom told me when she picked me up one weekend from CAL to take me home.
shame	emotional_events	When I was small, I would always fight with my younger sister and one time I hit her and knocked the wind out of her. I felt real bad about it.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear when I was young and left in my big house all alone.
anger	emotional_events	After I said something that my boyfriend disagreed with, he walked away from me without discussing what bothered him. I became very angry with him for treating me this way. Yesterday, November 14.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when my boyfriend and I were apart for some time.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed when I was confronted by a teaching assistant that a close friend and I were accused of cheating on a math exam.
fear	emotional_events	I got caught shoplifting a package of gummy bears.
anger	emotional_events	Sometimes when I go to work my crazy boss (a hyper Jewish lawyer) insists I do things his way (filing, typing, etc.). He sometimes blames me for things I didn't do, and I can't yell back at him.
sadness	emotional_events	Since I moved into the dorms and I've been spending most of my free time with my boyfriend. I hardly see my old high school friends. I had several bad incidents with my 2 past best friends.
shame	emotional_events	My grades. When my parents say, \How are you doing at school, á|getting good grades ?\" I say, \"Great, just fine !\" Actually, I á|feel ashamed about myself."
fear	emotional_events	Speaking in front of a large group of people.
anger	emotional_events	Same situation as before - having my car stolen.
sadness	emotional_events	When a close friend drowned in the American River.
shame	emotional_events	Arguing with a friend over politics. She was more informed on the issues and made me feel very ashamed of my political ignorance.
fear	emotional_events	On my second plane trip, we ran into unexpected turbulence.
anger	emotional_events	Having my personal objects rearranged by someone else without my consent and having it arranged to their taste. Then trying to find a particular object they rearranged for an hour or more.
sadness	emotional_events	Death of my father.
shame	emotional_events	Getting a low grade on a midterm.
fear	emotional_events	I overturned in a canoe a few years back and I didn't know how to swim. Although I had a life-jacket on I still panicked.
anger	emotional_events	I came out of the house at 7:20 am Monday morning getting ready t go to school and fight for a parking when I saw my car had a flat tire.
sadness	emotional_events	After my little sister's Graduation from High School my grandmother became very sick. She passed away a few months later.
shame	emotional_events	I felt this when I was copying homework for one of my classes.
fear	emotional_events	I'm afraid of not being able to go to the school I want because of suffering grades.
anger	emotional_events	I was stood up for a date function by someone who I really cared for.
sadness	emotional_events	After blowing up and saying all the wrong things, I realized what I had done and hurt that person and myself.
shame	emotional_events	I was supposed to do something and didn't. The person was really dependiong on me.
fear	emotional_events	That I would do bad in a class and not get into Bus school.
anger	emotional_events	When my dad told me about something he had done against my mother.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard my sister got in a bad car accident.
shame	emotional_events	I did bad on a test I didn't study for.
fear	emotional_events	When my B.A results had not come.
anger	emotional_events	When I failed my S.S.C exam.
sadness	emotional_events	When my sister left home to go and live with her husband.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the S.S.C examination I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	When I got to know that the friend I am closest to got engaged, and she was going away.  I was overjoyed for her, but also felt frightened as I was very emotionally dependent on her.  I did not know what I would do without her.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry at my brother over an argument we had together.  We do have a few fights from time to time, and also at times I take out my anger on him.
sadness	emotional_events	When I came to know that my feelings for someone were not reciprocated.
shame	emotional_events	I had a habit of wetting my bed when I was young.  One day, when I was invited to my friend's place to stay for the night, it happened again.  I was ashamed of myself.
fear	emotional_events	A few weeks back my daughter had very high fever and I was scared that it might lead to brain damage or convulsions.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when my mother-in-law did not handle my daughter properly and she fell down from the bed and hurt her head.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I could not take the M.A (I) exams due to illness, and a relative of mine disheartened me about it.
shame	emotional_events	When the teacher asked me a question in class, concerning something I had read earlier, and I did not know the answer, so I felt ashamed in front of the whole class.
fear	emotional_events	When I decided to separate from my husband.
anger	emotional_events	When my father talks about our relatives and favours them, I feel angry.
sadness	emotional_events	[ When my elders do not understand me in the right way.]
shame	emotional_events	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
fear	emotional_events	That day I was alone at home after coming home from school.  I did not know where everyone else had gone, I kept waiting for them to come back and nobody came.  It was getting very late and I was terrified.
anger	emotional_events	I was walking on a street alone in the afternoon when there were not too many people on the street.  A couple of guys were following me and I was ignoring them.  Suddenly one of them came in front of me and started using dirty language and harrassing me.  I got very angry and wanted to strike back at them.
sadness	emotional_events	A close friend of mine was to get married in a weeks time when her father died of a heart-attack.  I knew him well and felt bad on hearing of his death.
shame	emotional_events	I had always been first in my class and in the preliminary board exams I scored the highest marks.  Then the exams were postponed and I neglected my studies as I was confident.  However when the final results came out I felt ashamed as I had scored less than 60% marks and my rank in the class was fifth or sixth.
fear	emotional_events	I had gone to the hospital for my research and got late in reaching home.  I feared that when I reached home there would be a quarrel because of my being late.
anger	emotional_events	[ I feel angry when somebody is unjust to me.]
sadness	emotional_events	[ I feel sad when somebody is unjust to me.]
shame	emotional_events	[ I have never felt this emotion.]
fear	emotional_events	When my brother had an epileptic attack and I was scared as to what would happen to him.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry this morning when I missed the train to university.
sadness	emotional_events	When I missed my train this morning, I felt sad for some time.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed when I had not attended a class and the teacher asked me the reason for my absence.
fear	emotional_events	I have done the teachers training course (B.Ed).  During our training I was asked to handle the ninth standard class in a boys school.  I was scared to face the class the first day.
anger	emotional_events	I was to meet a friend at the bus-stop (he was coming to visit us) and he did not turn up.  After having waited for him for some time     (about an hour) I called him up, to be told that he did not intend to come as he was feeling tired.
sadness	emotional_events	When my sister died in a fire accident at home.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the ninth standard exam in school.
fear	emotional_events	[ I have always been very scared and tense before an exam and before the declaration of the results.]
anger	emotional_events	When my friend promised that she would come to my place, and did not turn up - I was annoyed at her.
sadness	emotional_events	[ When someone tells me something that hurts me, I feel bad about it and also feel sad.]
shame	emotional_events	Whenever I am late, I feel ashamed of myself even though no one tells me anything.
fear	emotional_events	While trying to board a train I missed the footsteps and fell down on the platform.
anger	emotional_events	I was having an argument with my brother on his behavior, then we  started fighting and I got annoyed at him because he started teasing me.
sadness	emotional_events	My best friend got married and left her home-town to go and live in Poona.  After her wedding I felt sad.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the twelveth standard exams I was ashamed at having to see my parents later.
fear	emotional_events	When I was coming back home alone at night.
anger	emotional_events	When I failed the M.S.C exams.
sadness	emotional_events	When my father was ill.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed the M.S.C exam.
fear	emotional_events	When I was 20 years old, I fell severely ill and was bed-ridden for 6 months.  I felt very scared for my health and my studies.
anger	emotional_events	A few months ago when I was teaching, I suddenly became very angry at the children and slapped some of them.
sadness	emotional_events	My friend got married and went abroad, this made me feel sad and lonely.
shame	emotional_events	When I got 1/2 out of 15 in Abnormal Psychology I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I had a very horrible dream one night, I dreamt that I had fallen off a very crowded train.
anger	emotional_events	When I was at S.Y.Bajaj I wanted to get admission in another college and this was not easy and I felt angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother scolded me for something, very insignificant, without knowing the real cause of what had happened.
shame	emotional_events	One day in the TYBA class the teacher asked me a very simple question which I could not answer.  Finally the teacher himself gave us the answer and my friends started laughing at me as I had not been able to answer a simple question.  I knew the answer but feared that my response may be wrong.  All this made me feel ashamed of myself.
fear	emotional_events	It so happened that while staying at anaunt's place I discovered that I was afraid of sleeping in pitch darkness.  The room which my sister and I were sharing had no light, and I would refuse to sleep without having the light of the adjoining bathroom switched on.
sadness	emotional_events	When I see people with burns I feel sad, actually I can not even express my feelings as I think that they must suffer a lot.
shame	emotional_events	When some of my close friends and colleagues talk about me and my work and say that I am the brightest student of the college.
fear	emotional_events	When for the first time I rode on a motorcycle with my brother.  He was going so fast that I felt that I would fall off without my brother realizing it.
anger	emotional_events	One of my friends asked me to go shopping with her, another friend of hers was also coming along.  During the outing they kept talking to each other and I felt left out, even when I tried to talk to them they seemed not to listen to me and did not pay me much attention.
sadness	emotional_events	Two years ago my best friend died in an accident, just a day before my birthray.  We were very close to each other and I felt very sad at loosing a close friend.
shame	emotional_events	As part of the assessment I had to speak on a subject in front of the class. I was not really prepared and I was just reading the stuff I had on a piece of paper, when some of the students  asked me something I could not give them an answer.  I felt ashamed as I had not prepared the topic.
fear	emotional_events	I was in a garden one evening and I saw a snake coming towards me.
anger	emotional_events	I am separated from my husband.  The way he has behaved towards me makes me angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When my husband lied to me, tricked me and when I had to leave my home.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed at myself for having shouted at my daughter because of my marital break-up and the unfair way I was treated.
fear	emotional_events	I was sitting on an electric swing, suddenly the machine went out of order while I was still in the upward position.
anger	emotional_events	A girl whom I trusted and with whom I had shared personal, confidential matters twisted the facts and told it to a common friend of ours.  When this common friend told me the version my friend had told her, I was angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When my elder sister died.
shame	emotional_events	Every time I do not write something well in English.
fear	emotional_events	[ No response.]
anger	emotional_events	One morning I was standing at the bus-stop and the bus passed by without stopping, even though there were only 8-10 passengers inside.  I felt angry at the rude behaviour of the bus driver and  conductor.
sadness	emotional_events	At the death of my friend's father and especially as this happened ten days before her wedding.
shame	emotional_events	When I could not pass my exams with good marks.  My wedding was to take place 15 days after the exams and I tried to convince myself that this was the reason for my not having done well.   However, I thought that had I really put my mind to doing well at the exams I would have done well.
fear	emotional_events	When I had to travel alone, unescorted for the first time.     It was an over-night journey by train to a distant place.
anger	emotional_events	I was not given a chance to explain to my close relatives as to why I could not go to visit them when they were ill.  When I did go, they thought that I had been selfish and irresponsible duringá their illness.
sadness	emotional_events	I put in two years of hard work and it was neither looked at nor appreciated.
shame	emotional_events	The first time that I had to go up on the stage to give a speech.
fear	emotional_events	I was coming home from a relative's place and it was about 9.30/10 P.M.  I felt slightly apprehensive when I got off the bus and started walking towards my place.  I was confident that nothing would happen to me, yet there was this slight feeling of fear.
anger	emotional_events	Uncleaniness at my work place.  The place is generally not very clean, but when it reaches a point, I get angry at the person who is supposed to clean the place and the people who are supposed to supervise him.
sadness	emotional_events	Three weeks ago a friend of mine bid me good-bye before going abroad.  I felt happy for her as she was achieving something by making the trip, but I also felt sad as I would not be seeing her for a long time.
shame	emotional_events	I got into a tight pair of trousers and examined myself in the mirror.  My back looked unpresentable and I felt ashamed at my wanting to wear those clothes that day.  I quickly changed into another dress.
fear	emotional_events	I experienced fear when I was not prepared for the final year degree exams.
anger	emotional_events	When the others did not do their bit of work on a group assignment task, and I had to do all the work.
sadness	emotional_events	After having been ill, when I was coming back to the hostel, I felt very sad leaving home.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed when I fought with my mother on some issue, and caused her trouble.
fear	emotional_events	When I almost walked on a snake.
anger	emotional_events	When I was insulted by a man.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother left for Kenya.
shame	emotional_events	When my co-resident opened the bathroom door while I was bathing inside.
fear	emotional_events	[ No response.]
anger	emotional_events	When I was blamed for some of my attributes which are very often misunderstood, especially when one is very frank.
sadness	emotional_events	When my sister lost her only son, who was sixteen years old.  I felt very bad about it as this was the first death in my family and then I learned slowly to understand to life.
shame	emotional_events	[ No response.]
fear	emotional_events	When I was working in Delhi, I had gone alone to see the hostel where I would be residing.
anger	emotional_events	When a relative, who had come to our place, created untidyness and dirtyness.
sadness	emotional_events	When I had to leave home to go to some other place to study.
shame	emotional_events	When I broke-down while seeing off my friend.
fear	emotional_events	Once when I was walking alone at mid-night, I happened to put my foot on a frog, as it felt smooth I thought that it was a snake  and I felt afraid. á
anger	emotional_events	My friend and I were to attend a very important meeting and he had promised to come and pick me up.  But he did not turn up and I felt very angry at him.
sadness	emotional_events	I was really hoping that I would pass the examination, but I failed and so I felt very sad.
shame	emotional_events	[ I have felt shame but am unable to remember any particular incident.]
fear	emotional_events	When my son fell off the cot at the age of 5 months, I became very nervous and thought that it would cause defects in his head.
anger	emotional_events	I was very angry one day when my husband ignored me and slept      on a separate bed.  He had no reasons to doubt me or to neglect me and I had never imagined that he could do such a thing.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard the news of the death of my father.  It was in the evening and I was alone all night in my room trying to remember the face of my father.
shame	emotional_events	One day I addressed my husband in an abusive manner in front of his friends.  Later on I realized this myself and felt ashamed of myself.
fear	emotional_events	I felt afraid just before receiving the question paper of the part II exam.
anger	emotional_events	I remember that when I was in school I saw a case of partiality - one of the teachers gave private coaching classes to some girls and she would give these girls extra attention in class and would ignore the others.
sadness	emotional_events	On the last day of my school life I was very sad, specially on the farewell party day.  I felt sad to leave behind my beloved teachers and friends.
shame	emotional_events	I remember that once, a friend did not co-operate with me due to some unavoidable reasons.  Unaware of this I treated her unjustly till I realized everything, and then I felt ashamad of my deeds.
fear	emotional_events	[ I do not recall one here either.]
anger	emotional_events	[ This emotion has never been an intense one, that makes it difficult to recall it.]
sadness	emotional_events	When my honest intentions were marred by another's jealousy.
shame	emotional_events	[ ....has not really happened.]
fear	emotional_events	Fear is an emotion that I experience very often.  Naturally this is during exams and subsequently while waiting for the results.  However there is one occassion when I was paralyzed with fear.  This was when I was doing my M.A.-I, and we had a series of student lectures.  I was one of the participants and my lecture happened to be the opening lecture.  I had been confident all morning, about twenty minutes before the lecture, my confidence started failing me.  I felt my heart go cold, my lips go dry and I was really paralyzed.  This incident of fear is still fresh.
anger	emotional_events	I experience this emotion quite often but the day I was most angry was the day I got pulled up for something I had not done.  It happened during my school days, I had not spoken a word in class but the monitor had written my name on the board.  So I had a remark in my callender which I had to get signed by my parents.  This remark resulted in me being spanked.
sadness	emotional_events	I have once been very sad and lonely.  This was when I was trying to organize a play as a student (15 years).  Instead of materializing, it fizzled out.  The worst thing was that the play fell apart completely and I found myself weeping uncontrollably.  Now when I think of it, I laugh it off; but at that time it was intense.
shame	emotional_events	This is an event I will never forget.  I am considered a good mimic.  This particular day we were waiting for a professor to take her class.  This  professor had a peculiar accent and a very horrible way of lecturing and to top it all we had this class at the fag end of the day.  So this particular day I got into my element and started imitating the professor, and the professor entered the class right in the middle of it .  I was unaware of her presence, some of my friends tried to warn me but it was of no avail as I was too engrossed in mimicing.  Then I suddenly noticed the silence and turned around to see her entering the class.  I do not know till today if she actually saw what I had been doing or she had completely ignored it.  Through  out that lecture I died of shame.  All the more shameful was the fact that she gave me a character certificate.
fear	emotional_events	This was when I was being followed home every day from the campus, by a stranger.  He would follow me to the campus and then sit outside my class.  If I was not there he would ask my friends as to where I was.  He was a dark, ominous looking person and I was terrified of him as I did not know his intentions.  I reported him to the security officer, who turned him over to the police.  I was even more petrified then.
anger	emotional_events	A new gas connection was to be installed and the mechanic who came to do it was very rude to my mother and me.  I rushed to thhe dealer with my mother and had a fight with the dealer as he seemed to be unreasonable and was taking the mechanic's side.  Ultimately the matter was resolved after my father went and spoke to him.  The mechanic was asked to apologize.
sadness	emotional_events	The day I was to receive my gold-medal for the M.A, my grandmother, who I loved very much, died after an illness.  She  died a few hours before the convocation.  While I was attending the convocation I had to control my grief as she would not have liked me to miss it.  It was a day she had been waiting for, but did not get to see.
shame	emotional_events	I was learning judo and my instructor wanted me to assist him in teaching girls judo at a suburban college.  I was just a beginer, and he made me a green belt so that I would be able to command respect.  This was against my principles, and yet I allowed myself to listen to him.  I gave it up soon after, however I felt very ashamed at not sticking to my principles and at not having put my foot down earlier.
fear	emotional_events	When I had gone to a school picnic and was left behind in the forest.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw a few people beating a man who seemed to be a stranger.
sadness	emotional_events	When India lost the Benson and Hedges cricket trophy.
shame	emotional_events	[ No response.]
fear	emotional_events	As a child, one evening I had read a novel about ghosts and I had thus spent a sleepless night as I kept feeling that there were ghosts dancing around me.
anger	emotional_events	Despite our good performance and excellent results the management refused to meet our demands.
sadness	emotional_events	When my beloved girlfriend got married to another person.
shame	emotional_events	I feel ashamed at the fact that even after 35 years of independence   70% of the Indian poulation is still below the poverty line.
fear	emotional_events	One day, early morning my mother who is healthy fell ill.  There was no doctor or compounder near by and for a few hours -8 A.M to 6 P.M she did not speak a single sentence, nor did she drink water or  milk.  There was no movement in her body and I felt really scared.  I almost lost my confidence about her survival.
anger	emotional_events	One day my elder brother badly scolded my father.  This was the first time that I heard such abusive language from my brother.  I requested him humbly not to use this kind of language but he did not care for what I was saying.  Finally I picked up an axe to use against him, in the meanwhile people intervened.
sadness	emotional_events	My close friend and I applied to TISS for admission last year, unfortunately he failed to get admission.  We had done our graduation together and are quite involved with each other, so we had wanted to do our Masters degree together.  However, it did not work out as we had expected it to and this saddened me.
shame	emotional_events	I had this feeling before my graduation and never dared to speak to my relatives and  friends.  Because of this feeling I would avoid situations, however I do not know the reason for this.
fear	emotional_events	When I was in my village one of my enemies had written a non-sense letter to a girl and he told the father of this girl that I was the culprit.  When I got to know this I was scared as  the girl's father was a worse man.
anger	emotional_events	When I was doing research a few months ago, I had asked the Institute to sponsor me for a computer course which was held in TISS.  However, because of the administrative officer I could not get the money.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was in Bombay one of my good friends was getting married and he had not informed me about it, this made me sad.
shame	emotional_events	Some time back I had signed a letter which I had not read.  What had happened is that something had been written against my friend and this went to the higher authorities.  My friend asked me  -\you also signed ?\"   "
fear	emotional_events	[ I have not felt this emotion yet.]
anger	emotional_events	[ On discovering the red-tapism and the bureaucratic, corrupt, decadent, degenerated infrastucture of every public utility, office and service; and the rampant corruption at every single level of education and other institutions.]
sadness	emotional_events	The death of Jaya Prakash Narayan caused a great deal of sadness as I believed that he was the only true democrat and a ray of hope on the Indian horizon.
shame	emotional_events	When I realized that I belonged to a country which is amongst the poorest in the world and that inspite of having the resources we do not utilize them.  I was ashamed at myself and my country, shame at the lack of parity between the lifestyles of the citizens.
fear	emotional_events	I was scared when I realized that I might miss the train which I was supposed to take.  I was 1500 Kilometres away from home and when  I heard the depart whistle I was still 150 feet away from the train.  I finally made it.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when repeated pleas to the ticket collector and the co-passengers in order to make a queue fell on deaf ears.  I have this feeling whenever someone is not disciplined and methodic in doing his duty.
sadness	emotional_events	I am filled with gloom and sadness at the death of a person.  More specifically, I felt sad after hearing the news of a death of a person who was hale and hearty and full of life, withá vigour and plans for the next day but had no next day to cherish it.
shame	emotional_events	I always feel ashamed when I do not succeed in accomplishing something in which I had put in all my efforts.
fear	emotional_events	I was then in the 10th standard and was going to my native place.  The last bus had already left and so I started walking, it soon became quite dark.  The road was a village road and was deserted, I was not even sure if that was the right way.  I finally reached home at 10 P.M.
anger	emotional_events	I was travelling from Delhi to Bombay.  I had booked a seat one month back and I had also got a telegram confirming this.  However, in the train my name had been omitted from the reservation sheet, and the one seat that was still vacant was alloted to another person who paid for it despite my requests for the seat.  I was allowed to stay in the reserved compartment when I paid money.
sadness	emotional_events	The news of the natural calamity, an earthquake in which hundreds  of Mexican people died.
shame	emotional_events	[ No response.]
fear	emotional_events	One of my fellow students had bunked field work and in my attempt to cover up for him I myself was exposed, though not directly.  We were to meet our field work suprevisor and we were afraid of the consequences.
anger	emotional_events	I had made an error in planning a programme and had publicly accepted the mistake, despite repeated requests not to bring the matter for discussion a professor kept constantly passing remarks. I reacted angrily.á
sadness	emotional_events	I was in love with a girl but had to separate from her because of different commitments concerning life and career.  I loved her as a person but could not agree with the life the future would demand.  Parting from her was very sad.
shame	emotional_events	I had reacted angrily at a friend for no fault of his.  I had raised my voice and had not cared for his opinion.
fear	emotional_events	A few weeks back I had a very important seminar and I had circulated my papers to all the panel members.  A day before the seminar I realized that I had inadvertantly burdened certain       derivations and I had failed to correct it.  I feared that this    would reflect very badly on my performance.  Fortunately none of  the panel members detected it and I felt relieved.
anger	emotional_events	A few days back a friend of mine poked me in the ribs for fun's sake, though I had warned him an infinite number of times that it really hurts me, he did it again.  I usually ignore this but this time I flared up for a split second and threatened to bash him up.  This is the latest incident when I lost my temper, though I felt very bad about it later.
sadness	emotional_events	The saddest moment in my life was when I lost my younger sister a few years back.
shame	emotional_events	Yesterday while playing volley ball, there was one person extra    and somebody had to out.  A mess worker and I were the  last ones to arrive and we had arrived at the same time.  Rightfully one of us had to opt out of the game, as I was delaying leaving the mess worker opted out saying that I should play.  I felt ashamed of myself.
fear	emotional_events	Before the declaration of the S.S.C results.
anger	emotional_events	When I was punished in school for no serious mistake of mine.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received the S.Y.J.C results, the marks I obtained were not up to my expectations and I missed admission in engineering.
shame	emotional_events	When I was detained one day in school, by the vice-principal, for indiscipline.
fear	emotional_events	At the age of 16 I had gone to see a film in a nearby village, about 8 kms  from my home.  I started walking as there was no bus.  I had to cross hills and as it was dark I could not identify the path.  Half way through it started raining and as there was no shelter I ran four kms to reach home.
anger	emotional_events	One day my room-mate started imitating me, doing what I had done a few hours back.  I got very angry and started beating him up.
sadness	emotional_events	A few months a close relative of mine died.  I had never expected this to happen and was sad for a few months.
shame	emotional_events	A few months back I had gone to my friend's place and they offered me tea and coffee.  I do not have the habit of drinking tea or coffee and so they offered me a glass of milk instead, so I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	[ Never experienced.]
anger	emotional_events	This was the worst incident of my hostel life.  I was insulted by a close friend of mine on the eve of the New year and it totally spoiled my New year's night.
sadness	emotional_events	[ When I feel that I have made a mistake.]
shame	emotional_events	[ Never experienced.]
fear	emotional_events	I received a letter from my college telling me that I would not be allowed to sit for the exams because of my low attendance in class and the bad experience in the terminal exams.
anger	emotional_events	Once a friend had pushed me and I had fallen on to a window which then broke.  I was taken to tthe principal's office and he accused me of having broken the window.
sadness	emotional_events	When I received my S.Y.J.C results which did not allow me to get   admission in engineering.
shame	emotional_events	My teacher asked me a question which I failed to answer and I was told to stay behind after the class and give the answer after studying it from a book.
fear	emotional_events	My illness a few years back.  I was sevely down with malaria and asthma, I had lost my health, charm and cheerfulness completely.
anger	emotional_events	During the short period of my unemployment about six years back.
sadness	emotional_events	My father's death in January 1983 moved me deeply.  The gloom prevailed for almost two years and I am still to recover from it.
shame	emotional_events	When I was 12 years old I was caught by the Ticket Collector when travelling without a ticket.
fear	emotional_events	When I did not get admission in M.Sc after my B.Sc, I felt really bad.  When I started my journey to Bombay, after having accepted my uncle's offer to come to Bombay, I was afraid, wondering if I  would succeed or not.
anger	emotional_events	When I was dancing with a dame at a social, one of my friends who  was interested in her came and took her away from me.  I was really angry with him then.
sadness	emotional_events	When a close friend, residing in the hostel, lost his father I really pittied him and the situation made me feel sad.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in the 12th standard, I could not speak English.  One day, while  talking with my relatives I used a wrong word and  my cousin corrected me, believing that I did not know English.  I really felt ashamed then.á
fear	emotional_events	Once I was very frightened at night as I had a very fearful and terrifying dream, I could not go back to sleep for a long time.
anger	emotional_events	Once I had an argument with my friends and I knew that I was right.  My friends went on arguing with me even though they did not know the right thing.
sadness	emotional_events	[ No response.]
shame	emotional_events	Once I had torn a few pages off a library book and I felt ashamed at this.
fear	emotional_events	After I was thrown out of a car in an accident, this resulted in a fracture.
anger	emotional_events	[ During my childhood when I could not get what I wanted from my brother/sister and parents.]
shame	emotional_events	The day my fiancee told me that it was bad that I could not write my mother tongue.
fear	emotional_events	[ Never.]
anger	emotional_events	[ Ther are many instances which are all equally irritating.]
sadness	emotional_events	When a girl did not answer a question, concerning my love for her, put forward to her.
shame	emotional_events	[ I was not, I am not, I will never ever feel ashamed of myself for something I have done.]
fear	emotional_events	On May 20th I got a summon to appear in court on May 28th 1985 on the subject of impregnanting a school girl. I really feared of standing in the court in a few days time after this notice. I was also embarassed due to formal approach that was expected of me to the Principal.
anger	emotional_events	Sometime ago I felt very angry when my mother wrote me telling me that my elder sister was messing up things at home by her internalised aggressive attitude towards parents and her husband.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when I was in Form three to notice that my friend Barley Jumbe, had lost very expensive new sports short trousers.
shame	emotional_events	Truely, I got very ashamed when my brother was sent out of Business Machines Limited Company due to improper handling of the office equipment in Sales Services.
fear	emotional_events	I had a cousin whom I loved so much. Unfortunately she passed away suddenly and one time I had a dream in which I was talking to her yet she is dead.
anger	emotional_events	Somebody wanted to beat my brother at a wedding ceremony and I was trying to protect my brother but the other man was calling names to both of us.
sadness	emotional_events	I never failed my examinations since Standard 1 but I experienced sad moments when I sat for Standard 8 Examination and I was not selected for Secondary School education in 1978.
shame	emotional_events	When I was young I was playing football near my parent's house and while playing I fell on the ground. At first I thought I was not seen by anybody, but when my mother laughed I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I once felt that my last hour had come when I was unexpectedly found in the hands of.
anger	emotional_events	It happened that my brother promised to give me money for school and then he told me that he had failed to fulfil his promise a day before school started. I became so angry for I thought my future would be ruined.
sadness	emotional_events	I was all of the sudden sad when I heard that my cousin who usually paid school fees had passed away after a very short illness.
shame	emotional_events	I once felt shame when I failed to fulfil the promise to marry a daughter of a certain gentleman.
fear	emotional_events	When I heard a rumour that the 1st year exam results were out. I had fear that I might be one of the failures.
anger	emotional_events	Somebody was blaming me of a story which was not real and not true.
sadness	emotional_events	Death of my grnadfather after having been in hospital for so long with cancer of the Oesophagus.
shame	emotional_events	When I had not done well in Geography at my MCE I was expected to get more than I did.
fear	emotional_events	When I was feeding a premature baby (7 months), the baby chocked. This was when I was working in children's ward I thought I had killed the baby.
anger	emotional_events	We were just about to go into the Exam room and I didn't see all my writing materials plus the identification card from the place where I left them.
sadness	emotional_events	When my boyfriend did not turn up in time as he promised he would be coming.
shame	emotional_events	Teacher suspected me stealing money.
fear	emotional_events	Staying in the room alone at night.
anger	emotional_events	An old lady slipped and nobody helped her.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend's mother died.
shame	emotional_events	Not collecting homeworks in time to give the teacher.
fear	emotional_events	My friend started to misunderstand and hurt me.
anger	emotional_events	Insulted by disgusting people.
sadness	emotional_events	My friend was badly hurt.
shame	emotional_events	Swearing in public.
fear	emotional_events	Before an examn.
anger	emotional_events	My class leader told me I am not chosen for your English lectures.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that the university will give first priority to qualified practioners and clinical years to go to your English lectures.
shame	emotional_events	China cannot give your lectures bigger place and sound system.
fear	emotional_events	Almost had a bicycle accident.
anger	emotional_events	People not cueing in the dining hall.
sadness	emotional_events	Failed an examn.
shame	emotional_events	Failed to recagnize a friend on the street.
fear	emotional_events	You may find out that I am stupid and not to let me do your experiment.
anger	emotional_events	A classmate told me I must have bribed the class leader to let me go to your English lecture.
sadness	emotional_events	I was not chosen for the All English class.
shame	emotional_events	Talking to friends about how old you are and we cannot be as successful as you at your age.
fear	emotional_events	Before the examn.
anger	emotional_events	Insulted by some stupid people.
sadness	emotional_events	Lost a friend.
shame	emotional_events	Saw something stupid and ignorant happening in the countryside.
fear	emotional_events	I was very scared when I went to the examination hall for my M.Sc examination as I had studied a limited partion of the course thoroughly and I was in great doubt whether that would be asked.
anger	emotional_events	I was most angry when India lost the Triangular Cricket trophy held in Australia.  I was so angry that I fought (orally) with my friend.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad  when I got the XIIth standard results, when I got low marks as compared to my friend and I could not get admission to courses like medicine.
shame	emotional_events	There is one thing which makes me feel shameful,  when I see friends of my age group working and earning a lot, when I am still studying.  A friend I met a week ago after a period of 5 years is earning more than Rs 3000/ month.
fear	emotional_events	I was very scared at the time of the Ty.B.Sc examination as I had decided to get 1st class results.  I was afraid thinking of how the papers would be.
anger	emotional_events	When my neighbours accused my brother of stealing their rose-bush, I was very angry as he had not touched it at all.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my girlfriend was getting married to another person, I felt very sad.  That day I did not eat anything and kept thinking of her all day long.
shame	emotional_events	When I had insulted my father two years back, at that time I was very angry due to some reasons.
fear	emotional_events	It was the time when I was in no position to secure a Ist class in the M.Sc exam and this was likely to affect my career.
anger	emotional_events	I missed an opportunity to go abroad because of some silly mistakes for which I had to suffer a lot.
sadness	emotional_events	It was at the time of my M.Sc exam, when I was not in a position to take the exam after having studied seriously.
shame	emotional_events	When I was not in a position to control myself.  I had said too much and had been cruel with no other than my mother.
fear	emotional_events	When I did not get the compound which is known.
anger	emotional_events	When I got low marks in B.Sc final.
sadness	emotional_events	When my first love was not successful.
shame	emotional_events	When I had been angry at my friend without any reason.
fear	emotional_events	When I was a kid, I always opened the door to greet my father when he came back from work.  One day it so happened that his hair was scattered due to over-crowding in the train, and when I opened the door as usual I saw something else.  I was so scared that I could not talk.
anger	emotional_events	This also happened when I was very small.  I was beaten up by my  mother for no fault of mine, I had just beaten up my younger brother for what I thought was his fault.  I was very angry with my mother.
sadness	emotional_events	After studying a lot for my H.S.C exams, I could not make it to the medical stream and I felt sad about this.
shame	emotional_events	[ Sorry, I was never ashamed about anything in my life.]
fear	emotional_events	When I came to know that my exams were on two successive days and that there was very little time (about 9-10 hours) to study in between.
anger	emotional_events	I was very angry when my friend lost my practical's journal, which I needed to study for the exams.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I did not get admission in the English college, as I had 1% less marks than they wanted.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed at myself when I saw that the other boys and girls   of my age earn a lot of money by doing very good and hard work.
fear	emotional_events	When I was going to take the practical exams.
anger	emotional_events	When I was teased by my friend for not scoring good marks in the exams.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was ditched by my girlfriend.
shame	emotional_events	When I was teasing a girl, who turned out to be my brother's dame.
fear	emotional_events	My brother lost his temper and started smashing things in the house.  I was quite scared, that something terrible might happen, till the situation was brought under control.
anger	emotional_events	I wanted to go to Bhopal for relief work (gas tragedy).  My boss simply refused to let me go, I was so angry that the only thought that came to my mind was to quit the job.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend of mine was hospitalized after having been diagnosed as having typhoid, he had to forgo his exams and also his ambition of doing a dissertation at the M.A level.  It was a very sad event for me and I felt very sorry for him so I volunteered to stay with him in the hospital.
shame	emotional_events	I had written a \love-letter\" to a class-mate of mine, this was á|meant to be a joke.  Unfortunately it fell in the wrong hands  á|and I had to face the consequences."
fear	emotional_events	While I was pushing a court roller out of a ditch, I slipped and fell down and the roller rolled back towards me -down slope-It is a miracle that I still have my legs intact.
anger	emotional_events	I was the compere at a party and all my efforts to get the show rolling were thwarted by the immobile, non co-operative guests.  I felt frustation - bordering on anger.
sadness	emotional_events	[ No response.]
shame	emotional_events	[ I am quite shameless, not applicable.]
fear	emotional_events	When I was treated improperly by someone.
anger	emotional_events	[ When bad and disgusting language is uttered by people, or when someone tries to show what is beyond his own capacities.]
sadness	emotional_events	[ I missed my twin when I was on the verge of being thrown, which I disliked.]
shame	emotional_events	[ No response.]
fear	emotional_events	When my mother met with a serious accident and there was danger that she would not survive and if she did she would loose her memory.
anger	emotional_events	When an acquaintance of mine beat up another person for no just reason, and thus showed off his power.
sadness	emotional_events	When a friend of mine died in a hiking accident.  I was not present there and only got the news later.
shame	emotional_events	[ Do not remember any incident.]
fear	emotional_events	I felt the above condition when I took my brother's bicycle to a market and unfortunately the bicycle was stolen and I didn't know how I could tell the owner about the stolen bicycle.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when my only pair of trousers was stolen and could not be able to find out who the thief was or anyone who knew about the story.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when my dear friend was needed from training school due to his failure in a number of subjects and simply didn't know what he had to do.
shame	emotional_events	I felt the above condition when I was found in a house playing with another man's wife where I was asked questions and I was unable to answer.
fear	emotional_events	I was living with my brother and one day he went away on business and I was left alone to look after the house and the property. At night thieves came and wanted to break into the house.
anger	emotional_events	My young brother took my wristwatch in my abscence and sold it to his friend at a cheaper price.
sadness	emotional_events	I had a girlfriend who lived several kilometers away from my home. One day she wrote me that she'd visit me. On her way she had a car accident and was badly injured. I was very sorry to see her lying in a bed in the hospital.
shame	emotional_events	It was my father's birthday party when I was asked to bring a tray of tea and other drinks.
fear	emotional_events	I was moving in the graveyard at 6.00 pm one day and was griped by fear because I was told that ghosts detain people moving there at night.
anger	emotional_events	There is a mad boy in our village. This boy hit me with a raw paw-paw in the face.
sadness	emotional_events	It was last September when I felt very sad. It was when I heard that I was not selected to study in the University of Malawi.
shame	emotional_events	An out-patient asked me to read for him a certain prescription but I was unable to do so. The patient was dissappointed and lost hope in me.
fear	emotional_events	In March I was busy studying during the night I could only sleep two or three hours only for fear that I would be weeded and sent back.
anger	emotional_events	I once caught a letter in my girlfriend's handbag from a certain man. I felt anger.
sadness	emotional_events	I was once nominated as an Officer Cadet in the Armed Forces and my name was cancelled on the list of nominees of those who were sent to Kenya for Training.
shame	emotional_events	It was last week on Sunday that I was walking with my girlfriend along Kawale road going to town so I tried to stop a car for a lift and the driver didn't stop and I felt shame because people were looking at us.
fear	emotional_events	When I saw a dead body in the mortuary I became afraid and I was filled with fear.
anger	emotional_events	A certain Area Party Secretary came home in the morning and said we had to leave our home and build somewhere and the reason being that they wanted to establish a market. The Chairman knew nothing about it and was very angry.
sadness	emotional_events	I was so sad when I heard that my Uncle had passed away. He was the only man who was supporting my parents as well as myself.
shame	emotional_events	It was a shameful moment when I heard that I had failed my Primary School leaving Certificate Exam in 1978. My girlfriend was there when the news was released.
fear	emotional_events	I broke my Uncle's Radio player accidentally and so I feared that he was going to cut me off from going to his house as well as playing it again.
anger	emotional_events	It was in March 1985 when one of my fellow students borrowed my wristwatch and after sometime he broke a glass of that watch I got angry when he was telling me but the anger didn't take long to fade.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was about to write my Junior Certificate Exams, I received sad news telling me that my elder sister had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I remember when I was in Standard 6, I failed one of the terminal tests and I told my parents that I had passed but after they found out from the class teacher that I had failed, I was proved a liar.
fear	emotional_events	The emotion came when I misbehaved at school and the Principal threatened me that I was going to be expelled.
anger	emotional_events	The emotion came when a certain boy opened my locker without my knowledge.
sadness	emotional_events	The sadness came to me when I heard that my girlfriend whom I loved so much got married to another man before a rebuff from her.
shame	emotional_events	The shame came when I was beaten by my teacher at school in front of boys and girls some of whom were my friends and a girlfriend apart from being classmates.
fear	emotional_events	When I was told to attend an operation in theatre.
anger	emotional_events	This situation happened when my friend John ate my banana which I kept in the cupboard.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was told that my father had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	This situation happened when I was found kissing a girl who was my friend's girlfriend.
fear	emotional_events	At night when I was coming from Lingadzi Inn I heard a hyena crying in the Lingadzi jungle. I was alone.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when I was told that I had not been selected to go to the University.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when I was told to walk out of the classroom because I was within the row of students who were making noise.
shame	emotional_events	When I broke a tea saucer. I felt ashamed. This was during the birthday of my girlfriend.
fear	emotional_events	I was given a wristwatch by my first girl and after two days another girl of mine also gave me a wristwatch.
anger	emotional_events	My girlfriend mentioned a certain girl's name who was my girl some time back and she is no longer mine that she said she was still mine.
sadness	emotional_events	I had been caught red-handed having stolen some paw-paw. I was then taken the elders owning the paw-paws.
shame	emotional_events	I had a girlfriend in the same class I was. I did not do well in my Exams, but she did satisfactorily well and was taken into another class leaving me behind.
fear	emotional_events	As I was taking venous blood from another patient I introduced air into the place of puncturing and there was a swelling which is dangerous to the patient hence I became afraid.
anger	emotional_events	My lovely girlfriend double-crossed me and so that I found her chatting with another guy.
sadness	emotional_events	I really became sad when mother passed away while I was very young.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed when my classmates discovered that I fell in love with an uneducated girl.
fear	emotional_events	When I had crossed Lilongwe forest I heard that there was a rabid hyena just near the path in the forest.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when I heard that my only girl was going about with another man. So I decided to drop her but later the story came to be untrue.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was not selected to go to the University of Malawi I felt very sad.
shame	emotional_events	I once proposed my own niece whom I did not know but I discovered after she was my girlfriend.
fear	emotional_events	When my friend was involved in a car accident.
anger	emotional_events	When I was charmed by my relatives.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother died in August 1978.
shame	emotional_events	When I first failed my standard 8 exams for the first attempt for Form I selection.
fear	emotional_events	I had fear when I was left alone at the bus depot at night. I had problems of how to move to this place.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when I heard that my sister had failed the Examinations which we hoped she was going to pass with distinctions.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when I heard that my girlfriend was double-crossing me with the boy who is my best friend.
shame	emotional_events	I experienced shame when I failed to keep a promise to meet my friend at the bus depot. He later came and asked me why I had not turned up.
fear	emotional_events	As I was in a ward one man died and I was instructed to watch the last offices. But this was my first time to see a dead person - fear came.
anger	emotional_events	I was very angry when I heard that my brother was beaten by his friends.á
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I heard about the death of my teacher who taught me in Standard 8.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed when a certain friend of mine I used to move with failed to propose to a lady yet we always said to ourselves no lady can refuse our proposal.
fear	emotional_events	I was looking after my father's sheen in the forest. One day while playing with friends from neighbouring villages the flock escaped me and went into a far place. It became dark and I was afraid of father. I went home and hid myself.
anger	emotional_events	I planned to travel a distance of 20 kilometres on my bike. I planned this when I was working in the hospital. When I went to the house I found that a friend had taken my bike without my consent.
sadness	emotional_events	It was in the evening when I heard that my girl went to Zambia and that she would never come back.
shame	emotional_events	One day mother slaughtered a chicken for a brother who had come back for holiday. In everybody's absence I opened the foodstore and ate all internal organs of the chicken. When mother discovered, we were all called and I was found with hands stained with soup. I was ashamed being the eldest of all in the family.
fear	emotional_events	At primary school I was accused by some boys of being in love with a certain girl in their class so they had to shout and beat the girl and the matter was reported to the headmaster.
anger	emotional_events	I was very angry when one day I went to see my girlfriend I talked to her and could not answer back. She was depressed for reasons which were not known to me.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I was shouted at by Uncle and was told that I was not to be given school fees because I didn't go to work in the garden since I had gone to escort my sister to the bus depot.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed one day when we were found stealing and roasting maize cobs from Agricultural experimental projects.
fear	emotional_events	I was walking alone along the place where people fear that there are always thieves there and the people who kill their friends during the night two months ago.
anger	emotional_events	I once was accused of falling in love with someone's girlfriend which was not true because the girl was just a friend of mine.
sadness	emotional_events	It was when I failed standard 8 exams while all my friends passed and went to secondary school. In class I was always getting more marks than they did.
shame	emotional_events	One day I was with my girlfriend and other friends were behind us, I fell down because the place was slippery and I really felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	When two hyenas made crying noise on the window of my bedroom at home when I was preparing for my MCE examination during the night.
anger	emotional_events	It was when my Instructor awoke me late at night to get prepared for the training at Military college when he was coming back from his personal social activities.
sadness	emotional_events	I slept in a tent at the Barracks which caught fire at night and my best possessions got burnt in there.
shame	emotional_events	When parents of a certain girl refused to let me marry their daughter because I was not fit to do so yet the girl accepted everything and later she followed what her parents insisted and she told me never to talk to her again.
fear	emotional_events	When I was travelling at night.
anger	emotional_events	I experienced this when one of my friends reported to the Headmaster that I had gone out for beer, whilst the information was not true at all. So I had to fight the friend before the Headmaster.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was at school.
shame	emotional_events	This was when one of the Clinical officers scolded us in the hospital on how to make beds but we did not deserve to be scolded.
fear	emotional_events	Fear came towards the end of May when the P.T.S. results were out after hearing the failure of my fellow three friends.
anger	emotional_events	I was once this week angry when soemone trying to compress my mind due to his nonsense speech which himself could not tolerate at all.
sadness	emotional_events	This condition accumulated in my mind when funeral news was brought to my awareness, that a close relative had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was very ashamed when I was neglected by a certain friend whom I was thinking loved me very much.
fear	emotional_events	It was when I stepped on a python (snake) unknowingly while it was sleeping near a baobab tree.
anger	emotional_events	It was when my friend had stolen my money (K10) and had disappeared.
sadness	emotional_events	It was when my father was taken into detention by the CIDS for two years for a reason I don't know up to now.
shame	emotional_events	It was when my father caught me with a girl in dark corners and asked me what I was doing there.
fear	emotional_events	My brother had bowel obstruction, having heard that he was going for surgery, I was afraid he might not come back to life after hearing of the General Anaesthesia.
anger	emotional_events	I felt very angry after one driver had run over my beloved niece.
sadness	emotional_events	I was away to school (Primary). In my abscence my young brother at home got sick suddenly. My parents took him to hospital. On the way he died. It came to me as a sad, sudden and shocking news and I felt very sad.
shame	emotional_events	I was in my room, I just heard that my Uncle had been caught in somebody's house with somebody's wife. He had to appear in court. I went to see what would happen to him.
fear	emotional_events	When I heard that there is teasing and bulling at Secondary School.
anger	emotional_events	When I heard that I was not to be provided with another pair of medical uniform.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my father had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When a certain girl I believed to be my life partner refused an engagement.
fear	emotional_events	One time I set up my journey at night going to a certain bar. On the way I met my friends and they told me that two people had died because of heavy fighting. I proceeded on but with fear.
anger	emotional_events	An incident occurred to me when I was going home with my girlfriend. On the way, a man named Banda grabbed my girlfriend in my presence. I was really angry with him and as a result I threw stones at him and he ran away.
sadness	emotional_events	When I found my baby whipped by my Auntie. I was really sad and up to this moment my sadness is still on.
shame	emotional_events	One day I went for a bath. I took off my clothes and as soon as I had finished my brother came in. I felt sad and I found no reason why he came in.
fear	emotional_events	When we were going to Nkhoma last Saturday the vehicle was moving very fast, so I feared we might crash since the road was too rough.
anger	emotional_events	When they put the blame on me when I scored the third goal at the match.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt very sad when I lost my three Kwacha at civo Stadium when Sam Mangwana was playing some Rumba records. That was not what I expected, I wanted some Disco records.
shame	emotional_events	It was when we were beaten or lost the football match by 5-1 and then I scored the third goal to my own side.
fear	emotional_events	It was last week on Saturday night when I was at Mchesi. I feared to cross the Lilongwe River Bridge to come back to School due to darkness - until somebody had to escort me.
anger	emotional_events	It was at Malawi Army, Dormer Squadron, when some of my workmates got promoted to Seargents (sgts); we were having similar Ranks.
sadness	emotional_events	It was mid May 1985, When we had a Test on Nursing. My classmate had an answer sheet, so he tried to peep. The Nursing Tutor caught him. During this time I was turning my question paper and it made noise. This friend blamed me of causing the whole matter for him to be caught.
shame	emotional_events	In our class we had a test on Nursing, so a friend from the Army was caught peeping, by using a paper which had already answers which was written by him. So all of us from the Army got ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	One day I was busy day dreaming along the road and suddenly I heard the sound of jamming car braked behind me. I woke up from my dreams and it was about to crash me.
anger	emotional_events	When I was doing my last year at Secondary School I was robbed of my clothes, wristwatch and my pair of shoes. After investigations it was found that all the things were stolen by one of the boys in our hostel.
sadness	emotional_events	It was on 9th January 1983 when I received a message from home telling me that my father passed away on the previous day with a history of cancer of the oesophagus. This time I was doing my third year of my Secondary School.
shame	emotional_events	In 1972 I failed my Examination because of my own crooky behaviour of dodging from Examinations.
fear	emotional_events	When it was found that I had gone out of the school premises without permisssion and at the wrong time.
anger	emotional_events	When a classmate hit me on my occipital region when I was busy studying and concentrating on my classnotes.
sadness	emotional_events	When my father died.
shame	emotional_events	Soiled my short trousers with faeces.
fear	emotional_events	One time I was injured when I was playing football at School in Blantyre. I was brought to the hospital while my leg was totally swollen. The x-rays confirmed there was no fracture but collection of blood n the muscles. I feared when they started to incise the swollen part with surgical blade.
anger	emotional_events	One day I was really angry when all my food was eaten by a dog. My anger was against my mother because she was careless. She didn't keep the food in a hidden and proper place.
sadness	emotional_events	One day I came across a certain boy who was intruding my friendship as lovers with my girlfriend and I was very sad because I didn't expect that girl to disappoint me I regarded her as being very faithful.
shame	emotional_events	At one occasion I was ashamed of being refused after a proposal for a friendship with a certain girl. I was ashamed because she refused publically in the presence of my fellow friends.
fear	emotional_events	We went fishing some 5 or 8 kilometers off the shore of Lake Malawi. Before we could settle down the lake became very rough to the point of threatening our lives.
anger	emotional_events	I was angered by a classmate who poured soup on to my clothes. He was trying to use a short-cut method in getting his supper. Coming behind my back, he wasn't noticed by me and as I was retreating from a hungry congested people I knocked his plate with my head. He didn't accept being wrong but blamed me for pouring his soup.
sadness	emotional_events	I was sad when my MCE grades were out. I had gone for a football match a mile away from home. The mail found me there. I was disappointed and didn't play the other half of the match.
shame	emotional_events	News was spread that I had been found doing sexual intercourse with a small girl. At first this annoyed me but later on I became ashamed because many people seemed to believe it.
fear	emotional_events	I was studying in class at night. I was in Form II by then. There were rumours about an earthquake. That night dogs were chasing one another and passed through the window outside the classroom. Those who saw the dogs thought it was a lion and were terrified. Trying to run away the desks were dragged and there was a shaking movement. I thought it was an earthquake and jumped out of the window.
anger	emotional_events	Someone told a lie that I had stolen his money.
sadness	emotional_events	My Uncle was beaten by his troublesome son. He fell unconscious and gained consciousness after some time. That time I was at school; this news reached me through someone.
shame	emotional_events	I answered a certain question from Dr. Maqgda wrongly. She asked something about Femur and my answer was saying something concerning the brain. So I was very ashamed amongst my friends.
fear	emotional_events	My father gave me money for school fees and I didn't pay school fees instead I spent it on beer and did not tell him about this.
anger	emotional_events	There was a cup final match between Limbe Leaf Wanderers and Silver Strikers and someone promised to give me some money for admission fee to watch this game. Unfortunately he did not give me.
sadness	emotional_events	I had received bad news informing me that grandmother and grandfather had passed away. The first one to die was my grandmother and after two days grandfather died too.
shame	emotional_events	I had high-heeled shoes one time, but a certain girl who saw the shoes told me that they were out of fashion and I looked as an old man when I was in those shoes.
fear	emotional_events	As we were going to Area 10 a dog chased me. I was afraid it might bite me.
anger	emotional_events	Brother took my money to use for his own purposes.
sadness	emotional_events	After hearing the news about the death of my sister, I felt very sad.
shame	emotional_events	I was very much ashamed after a friend beat me at school and I was defeated.
fear	emotional_events	When one of my relatives went out at night leaving me and my friend alone, I cheated my parents that she didn't go out, after they had heard that she was out, I was afraid that she might have beaten me.
anger	emotional_events	When someone took my writing materials yet I was to write Examinations in a few minutes.
sadness	emotional_events	When I failed my Standard 8 Examination for the first time.
shame	emotional_events	When someone pointed out that I was proud, yet I didn't dress up properly. This was when I and my friend went for a dnce one Saturday.
fear	emotional_events	I felt fear when one night my aunt and Uncle left me alone at their house to look after the baby when they went to a party.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry at one time when I was chatting with friends and suddenly another friend joined us and started opposing any comment I added to our chatting.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when a thief stole all the clothes from my friend's cupboard at school (boarding).
shame	emotional_events	I felt shame when I was asked by my cousin that I promised to buy her a birthday present but I didn't buy it for her in front of friends.
fear	emotional_events	I was with my boyfriend forgetting that I had left the house unlocked. Unfortunatly a thief came and stole all the kitchen utensils. Thereafter I was afraid of the consequences.
anger	emotional_events	My best friend started moving out with my boyfriend. When I heard this my heart sank because I didn't expect that my own good friend could do such a thing, so I got angry.
sadness	emotional_events	I was sad when I heard that my cousin died because of being bewitched by her husband's second wife.
shame	emotional_events	I met a woman who was looking for our house. She stopped me but I ran away. When I arrived at home I found the same woman and she told my parents what had happened so I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	Somebody told her friend that she would hit me wherever we would meet.
anger	emotional_events	This was when my boyfriend told me that I was double-crossing him with a certain boy.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my friend had started drinking beer.
shame	emotional_events	One day I was supposed to go to a movie with my boyfriend. In the morning I went to see my Auntie and I didn't come back up to evening.
fear	emotional_events	When I came home late one day. I was afraid I would be shouted at by my parents.
anger	emotional_events	When a little brother of mine damaged a cassette.
sadness	emotional_events	I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents attention by talking to them.
shame	emotional_events	When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time.
fear	emotional_events	I and my cousin went to a filmshow at night. We went without making it known to my mother. While we were there at interval, I came across my mother just close to where we sat.
anger	emotional_events	During the Xmas holiday, I and my best friend at Secondary School had planned to meet at a Cultural afternoon at the Mt. Soche Hotel after missing each other for such a long time. When I asked my mother for permission, she told me not to go for no good reason. I felt very angry with her.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was transferred from Chichiri Secondary School to St. Mary's Sec. School. I was happy at Chichiri as a day scholer and had made a lot of friends. I was going to a boarding and that meant parting with my friends as well as my boyfriend for the first time.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed my Primary school leaving Examinations. I never thought I would fail. When I heard I had failed I really felt ashamed of myself.
fear	emotional_events	Sometime back, my boyfriend and I were having a walk nearby my parent's house. Suddenly we met my grandfather and I was afraid that he would report to my parents.
anger	emotional_events	One day I was angry with my friend who went into my drawer and took a piece of paper on which I wanted to write a letter and used it for her business without my knowledge.
sadness	emotional_events	It was shocking news to me when I received a telegram from home telling me that my grandmother had passed away. I had to go home to attend the funeral but unfortunately I found that the burial had already taken place.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed with my biology lecturer when he asked me a question and I could not answer it.
fear	emotional_events	When the week for Exams came. I got afraid as to how I would tackle the questions.
anger	emotional_events	Last week a friend of mine called on me and said I was moody and difficult to persuade. With this I got angry with her.
sadness	emotional_events	I experienced this emotion when my grandfather passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed when my lecturer said in class that I happened to be the dullest of all.
fear	emotional_events	When I was called for an Interview at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
anger	emotional_events	When I damaged my wristwatch which I liked very much.
sadness	emotional_events	When my cousin passed away.
shame	emotional_events	When I failed Psychology examination when most of the students passed.
fear	emotional_events	One day during our clinical practices, we had a very ill patient. Unfortunately the patient passed away. I had seen him dying and it was the first experience. During the night I became afraid fearing the dead body.
anger	emotional_events	It was during the beginning of the term. I had K100 and kept it in my handbag. I left the handbag in the wardrobe but didn't lock it. Next time I found that K30 were stolen.
sadness	emotional_events	My best friend had failed Exams. She had to leave and so we got separated.
shame	emotional_events	I had been telling lies and people discovered instantly that I was telling lies. I felt very shameful and I felt like disappearing from people.
fear	emotional_events	When I stepped on a snake at home, it was dark but there was moonlight.
anger	emotional_events	I went to a fair where a guy who was drunk kept bothering me and in the end I got really angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my Uncle had passed away in a road traffic accident.
shame	emotional_events	We were writing Primary school leaving Examinations when I had fallen at the steps going into the Exam room.
fear	emotional_events	I was alone walking in a deserted part of the city and I had some fear that some men would attack me and rob me.
anger	emotional_events	I wrote an Exam and happened to have not done as well as I thought I would. I was angry to myself for not having done so well.
sadness	emotional_events	I lost my purse that had money in it. I was sad until I found it.
shame	emotional_events	A friend of mine was shouting at me in a group of juniors.
fear	emotional_events	When I was travelling home by bus and suddenly the bus hit and the bus leaned against a wall.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when someone stole a magazine which I had borrowed from another friend and locked it in a drawer.
sadness	emotional_events	When my best friend promised to come at my house and I had to prepare so many expensive things for her but only to learn at last that she would not turn up.
shame	emotional_events	I felt ashamed one day when my teacher shouted at me in the presence of my boyfriend.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid when my boyfriend came home because my parents disapproved him of his coming home. I thought they would chase me out of the house.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when my friends said that I should not receive Nursing Science books because there was a rumour that I was intending to leave the college.
sadness	emotional_events	When my cousin passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed of being laughed at by my colleagues when I failed to answer a question in the classroom.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid to walk through the forest one day when I dropped off the bus around 6.30 pm.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when somebody stole my half petticoat.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when my father was sick.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed when my boyfriend went to sit with another girl when he invited me to come to watch Drama festival.
fear	emotional_events	Afraid of a dead body.
anger	emotional_events	A tailor ran away with my skirt.
sadness	emotional_events	Cooks refused to give me food.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed when I was being introduced to the church congregation.
fear	emotional_events	I was playing with friends then I decided to splash some sand into a car which was moving nearby. The driver got angry and came to report to my parents.
anger	emotional_events	Sometime back another girl who was in terms with my ex-boyfriend came to shout at me at twelve midnight. It was because she thought I was still interested in the boy.
sadness	emotional_events	In May 18th, 1984 my boyfriend went to the U.S.A. In December I was told he passed away. He had cancer of the Oesophagus.
shame	emotional_events	My father who is very quiet discovered I was going out with a coloured boy. He called me names and was really upset.
fear	emotional_events	I felt so afraid when dad fell ill, he had never suffered from that disease since and I had never seen him as he was.
anger	emotional_events	I was furious when the teacher pointed out in class that I was the quietest girl in class.
sadness	emotional_events	It was extremely sad to me when I heard that a patient who I was taking care of in hospital had passed away. He had some abdominal pains.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed when I got the lowest result (mark) in class. All the same I didn't worry too much because I knew I would have got much better if I had read enough.
shame	emotional_events	I failed my Nutrition paper which was the paper ending the course.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid when my mother left me alone to live in our house for one month.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when my boyfriend did not turn up as promised.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I heard that my uncle had passed away untimely at home.
shame	emotional_events	I was walking one day and I met a man who wanted to ask me about my brother but I didn't stop to hear what he was saying. I was ashamed when I found him at home and he told my brother what had happened.
fear	emotional_events	When I dream of anything terrifying I used to have fear for the rest of the day that the dream might come true e.g., being beaten (or eaten ?) by a snake.
anger	emotional_events	I had been in love with a certain young man who pretended to love me but one day I found out that he had another girlfriend who was also a friend of mine.
sadness	emotional_events	I wrote a letter to my boyfriend but he couldn't answer it in time so as a defence mechanism I just found that I felt so sad about it and couldn't talk to anyone.
shame	emotional_events	I was once chatting with friends. Then some boys came and joined us. These boys took all my 3 friends away and I was left alone in shame without knowing where to go from there.
fear	emotional_events	I broke a window of a neighbouring house and I feared my mother's judgement and action on what I had done.
anger	emotional_events	The headmistress at a secondary school accused me of banging the classroom door when I didn't in front of the whole class.
sadness	emotional_events	I received a message that my elder brother was involved in a car accident and was admitted in hospital.
shame	emotional_events	I insulted my friend for a small reason and after time I realised that I was wrong and felt ashamed; everytime I meet her I feel ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	When a thief entered the house in which I was sleeping.
anger	emotional_events	When my dress was stolen.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother died after a long illness.
shame	emotional_events	When I refused to fetch water for my aunty while she was busy.
fear	emotional_events	I was in the house at night and I heard a hyena crying outside. It cried for almost an hour and I feared it might break the window and enter inside the house.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry at the Cafeteria when the cook scolded and said many bad things about me without reason. He thought I was among the girls who did him wrong.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I heard that my Auntie had passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was very ashamed when I failed a test in Standard 7. The teacher told the other students to shout and laugh at me.
fear	emotional_events	When I heard that my father had found a letter from my boyfriend and he was calling me to talk about it.
anger	emotional_events	When a certain boy went about saying that I am his girlfriend. I wrote him an insulting letter to him and called him names.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard that my father had passed away. I could not eat for a week and was only crying. I could not find the courage to go to bath.
shame	emotional_events	When I wet my head (or bed ?) one day my sister discovered it and reported it to the other siblings. So my mother had to scold me.
fear	emotional_events	I was on my way home when suddenly Gule Wamkulu came from the bush and blocked the road. I was in fear and didn't know what to do.
anger	emotional_events	A certain man went to my parents and told them that I was married here, when I am here at school. When I went home for holidays my parents asked me about it and I was angry with that man.
sadness	emotional_events	When I went home on holidays I found that my niece and nephew had passed away I was very sad for the children were not even sick before death but suddenly died.
shame	emotional_events	I wore a dirty dress a certain day I was going to town I met an old friend who made a comment about my dress so I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I went to the prayer meeting at night and unfortunately the car broke down, so my other sister said I had to walk alone from Ndirande to Chirimba at around midnight. So we reached home at 1 am. I was afraid of robbers and dardness.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry the other day because the teacher told me to sweep some orange peels. It was my friends who were supposed to sweep, but the teacher told me to do it.
sadness	emotional_events	I was very sad when I heard that my brother had failed the standard 8 exams for the third time.
shame	emotional_events	I was really shameful when my mother beat me in the presence of my friends because I didn't cook lunch up until 2 o'clock.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid when I met my Uncle because this time I was with my boyfriend I thought I was not going to be given pocket money.
anger	emotional_events	I was angry when I had not been granted a leave out pass during the last weekend.
sadness	emotional_events	I was sad to hear that my brother had a motorbike accident.
shame	emotional_events	I was ashamed to tell my mother that I fell down with a bicycle.
fear	emotional_events	I was asked to join my friend in a boat at Mangochi Lake Malawi and when making a turn, it seemed as if the boat would sink on the side.
anger	emotional_events	Somebody took my wristwatch and promised to have it mended and later was telling me that he couldn't give it back to me because I was rude at a certain time.
sadness	emotional_events	My boyfriend didn't turn up after promising that he was coming.
shame	emotional_events	When a certain drunk man slapped my buttocks when I was quietly standing waiting for a bus.
fear	emotional_events	I was sleeping alone in the house at night. A boy putting on a short only knocked at the window whispering that I should open for him.
anger	emotional_events	The patient whom I expected to get well suddenly passed away after he showed had his meals.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandmother passed away.
shame	emotional_events	I was the last among the list of failures in my class of Biology.
fear	emotional_events	Sometime back I used to stay with my mum alone then time came when dad joined the family from his working place I found myself having fear for him for no cause at all.
anger	emotional_events	I was so angry with a patient who refused to take drugs.
sadness	emotional_events	When I heard of the death of a friend who had just finished her training I felt very sad for she was young.
shame	emotional_events	Sometime back I was coming from the wards and lice were all over my uniform since patient's blankets have a lot of lice. It happened that my boyfriend picked some lice from my white uniform. I was so ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I was fearful when I realised that the relish was overcooked simply because I was not keen enough at checking whether there was still enough water in the relish or not, instead I was just playing with my friends.
anger	emotional_events	I felt angry when my friend told me that I had stolen her money.
sadness	emotional_events	I felt sad when I heard that my cousin had passed away just suddenly.
shame	emotional_events	I flet shameful when I learnt that I cooked Nsima which was full of lamps in it.
fear	emotional_events	My friend had been telling me about a certain bird which when it cries at night it's the sign that someone will die. So one night I was alone in the house and I heard the cry of the bird and I was afraid.
anger	emotional_events	One of my friends went and told another friend of mine that I was going abut with another guy in Lilongwe besides the one I had. She said I was seen with him hand in hand.
sadness	emotional_events	I received a letter form home telling me that my sister was very sick.
shame	emotional_events	I fell off a bike in the presence of a lot of people.
fear	emotional_events	I had fear of my father (parents) when I first became pregnant. I was afraid of delivery itself and whether I would give birth to a stiiborn or a baby.
anger	emotional_events	It was when I discovered that my boyfriend had another girl. I discovered it through a letter he wrote to the girl when he was away. When I asked him he accepted it.
sadness	emotional_events	My child passed away after a short illness when he was just eleven months old. I was only told about his death without knowing that he had been ill.
shame	emotional_events	I just opened the bathroom without knocking not knowing that someone was bathing inside, it happened to be my father.
fear	emotional_events	Fighting with class mates in Highschool.
anger	emotional_events	Made mistakes in exam.
sadness	emotional_events	Failing examn.
shame	emotional_events	Did not finish homework.
fear	emotional_events	Walking on a dark street with noone around.
anger	emotional_events	My friend misunderstood me.
sadness	emotional_events	My grandmother died.
shame	emotional_events	Did not finish homework.
fear	emotional_events	Before examination.
anger	emotional_events	Listening to long speech of the party leaders wasting my time.
sadness	emotional_events	My girl-friend left me.
shame	emotional_events	Saw the film about Eight Nations Army conquering Beijing.
fear	emotional_events	Telling my parents that I did not well in an examn.
anger	emotional_events	My bed sheet (present of my parents) damaged by roommate.
sadness	emotional_events	Not being accepted by classmates in university.
shame	emotional_events	Not having good marks like other people for homeworks.
fear	emotional_events	Lost my purse, the money in the purse belonged to my parents.
anger	emotional_events	South Korea winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympic (more than China).
sadness	emotional_events	Saw the village I come from still pay money to buy wife.
shame	emotional_events	Found out that I am not good at football.
fear	emotional_events	Damaged the tap in the residental Hall.
anger	emotional_events	Too many people in TV room, I was not able to get a seat to watch TV.
sadness	emotional_events	My sister marrying a bad man. He is cruel to her.
shame	emotional_events	My sister was afraid of her husband.
fear	emotional_events	Waking up from a bad dream in a dark night with noone else around.
anger	emotional_events	I could not find my monthly tickets for the bus when I was on the bus.
sadness	emotional_events	Two little children (5/6 years old) begging for money, and noone gave them money.
shame	emotional_events	Sitting on the bus seats supposed for disabled people, children and old people (by mistake)
fear	emotional_events	Left alone in the dining hall at night.
anger	emotional_events	Bus conductor insulted me for not buying a ticket (I forgot).
sadness	emotional_events	Saw a father beating up his small child.
shame	emotional_events	Not quick enough to help the lectors to catty things for the lecture.
fear	emotional_events	Could not find my way out in the college building at night.
anger	emotional_events	Saw in the TV South Korea cheating in the Asian Olympic games.
sadness	emotional_events	General Ye Jianying died.
shame	emotional_events	Failing an examn.
fear	emotional_events	Getting lost in a strange place.
anger	emotional_events	South Korea cheating for gold medals.
sadness	emotional_events	My friend has to go on field trips, he just told me.
shame	emotional_events	Zhu Jianhau did not break the world record for China.
fear	emotional_events	Going to the examn not well prepared.
anger	emotional_events	Overhear people talking about me and saying that I am stupid.
sadness	emotional_events	Hearing about developments of sience in the West a lot better than China.
shame	emotional_events	Not being able to be selected for the dancing team.
fear	emotional_events	Left alone in the dark in a big building.
anger	emotional_events	Someone called me a disgusting nickname.
sadness	emotional_events	Not getting on with someone of my classmates in high school.
shame	emotional_events	Not brave enough to take up a challenge in a group discussion.
fear	emotional_events	Walking alone in the dark in a strange street.
anger	emotional_events	A friend forgot his appointment with me.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend misunderstood me.
shame	emotional_events	Not being able to have a party at home with friends.
fear	emotional_events	Facing a mad dog.
anger	emotional_events	Misunderstood deliberately by a close friend.
sadness	emotional_events	My old teacher in primary school died.
shame	emotional_events	Being rude to somebody who was impolite to me.
fear	emotional_events	Listening to horrot stories at night.
anger	emotional_events	My roommate was rude to me.
sadness	emotional_events	My uncle died in the Vietnam War.
shame	emotional_events	Arguing about price with private shop-assistant.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out that I am not an as able student as I thought.
anger	emotional_events	I was told to do something I did not want to do.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that China is still backward in science.
shame	emotional_events	Insulted by somebody.
fear	emotional_events	Just arrived in the university, not knowing anybody.
anger	emotional_events	Insulted by teacher.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out I am not good looking.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out from this lecture that China is backward in psychology.
fear	emotional_events	Diagnosis that I have a stomache ulcer.
anger	emotional_events	A classmate damaged ma iron and tried to hide the damage.
sadness	emotional_events	Not winning a medal in the swimming contest.
fear	emotional_events	Before an examn.
anger	emotional_events	Korean judges cheating.
sadness	emotional_events	My father left us for another woman.
shame	emotional_events	Had to tell people that my parents are divorced.
fear	emotional_events	Almost had a bicycle accident.
anger	emotional_events	Heard about someone telling lies about me to my best friend.
sadness	emotional_events	My best friend suddenly acting strange towards me.
shame	emotional_events	After shouting at a friend.
fear	emotional_events	Getting ill.
anger	emotional_events	My class leader told me the university won't let all of us go to your lectures because we are not All English Class.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was not chosen to go to your English lectures.
shame	emotional_events	China cannot let you give more lectures because you are needed in the specialist clinics. We are so backward in medicine.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out my best friend cannot go to the English lectures.
shame	emotional_events	Failing in an examn.
fear	emotional_events	Watching a horror film.
anger	emotional_events	My parents do not like my friend and told me not to go out with him.
sadness	emotional_events	My grandmother died.
shame	emotional_events	Failing in an examn because of lazyness.
fear	emotional_events	Staying alone in a dark place.
anger	emotional_events	Being sexually assulted on a bus.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that my best friend could not go to university.
shame	emotional_events	Watching TV about china is behind in winning gold medals.
fear	emotional_events	Beaten up by a classmate in school.
anger	emotional_events	Being insulted in public.
sadness	emotional_events	A girl I love does not love me.
shame	emotional_events	Failing university entrance examn.
fear	emotional_events	First time in anatomy.
anger	emotional_events	Misunderstood by a close friend for the wrong reason.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that China is poor, so we cannot have good reference books.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out that the university police was afraid to stop the foreign students playing loud music (China's shame).
fear	emotional_events	Earth crake.
anger	emotional_events	Made a statement that other people did not believe.
sadness	emotional_events	Saw poverty in the countryside.
shame	emotional_events	Not being able to argue against class leaders.
fear	emotional_events	Staying alone in the dark.
anger	emotional_events	Being put down by the class leaders.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that life span in China is shorter than in the West.
shame	emotional_events	Being insulted in public.
fear	emotional_events	Walking home in the dark from college.
anger	emotional_events	Finding out that I was deceived by a friend.
sadness	emotional_events	Not doing well in an examn.
shame	emotional_events	Failing an examn because I did not work hard enough.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out that my health condition may be against my attending university lectures.
anger	emotional_events	Bought something bad from the shop and they refused to change it.
sadness	emotional_events	Relative's death.
shame	emotional_events	Running away from a fire.
fear	emotional_events	Going out alone in the dark.
anger	emotional_events	Saw some young people fighting for seats on a bus.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother's death.
shame	emotional_events	Went to a lecture about Chinese history and hear about the Opium War.
fear	emotional_events	My friend will find out that I am in love with her.
anger	emotional_events	Falling in love although she is my friend (angry with myself).
sadness	emotional_events	My friend still trusts me as a friend.
shame	emotional_events	Insulted by a teacher in front of the class.
fear	emotional_events	Before the examn.
anger	emotional_events	I wanted to borrow lecture notes from a friend and he did not lend me them.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out about the university does not have enough foreign currency to buy the yournals in your reference list.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out about Chinese money cannot buy foreign journals.
fear	emotional_events	Ran into a parking car on a bicycle.
anger	emotional_events	Insulted for no reason.
sadness	emotional_events	Did badly in an examn.
shame	emotional_events	Saw a beggar on the street (China still so poor).
fear	emotional_events	I may not be clever enough to understand your English lectures.
anger	emotional_events	Told by some people the class leader only choose his friends (not true).
sadness	emotional_events	One of my best friends was hurt by a girl he loves.
shame	emotional_events	China cannot buy your reference.
fear	emotional_events	Getting ill.
anger	emotional_events	Failed to be elected to be a class leader.
sadness	emotional_events	Father lost his temper at home because he was mistreated at work.
shame	emotional_events	Telling a lie.
fear	emotional_events	Anatomy lesson and told we have to do it at night sometimes.
anger	emotional_events	Had an argument with my classmate for borrowed books.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that we cannot have good references because China is poor.
shame	emotional_events	Criticized in front of the class.
fear	emotional_events	Reading a horror story alone.
anger	emotional_events	Being refused to attend the neuropsychology lecture in the medical university.
sadness	emotional_events	My parents told me that they do not like my friend.
shame	emotional_events	Not finishing my duty as a class leader.
fear	emotional_events	Left alone in the biology building surrounded by empty buildings.
anger	emotional_events	Someone told me we are not as good as the All English Class.
sadness	emotional_events	Not getting the reference paper.
shame	emotional_events	Not finishing homework.
fear	emotional_events	Thinking about death when walking alone at night.
anger	emotional_events	Found out that someone I knew well has been misunderstanding me for 2 years.
sadness	emotional_events	Death of a relative.
shame	emotional_events	My father insulted by other people.
fear	emotional_events	Doing anatomy alone for the first time.
anger	emotional_events	Being insulted in front of my parents, and they believed other people (those insulting me).
sadness	emotional_events	Death of General Ye Jianying.
shame	emotional_events	Not doing well in the examn.
fear	emotional_events	I asked someone to bring some present to my father and found out that he is not a reliable person. I was afraid if my father would not get the presents he would be angry with me.
anger	emotional_events	Some classmates said I did not do enough social work. Therefore I was not elected as a \Tree Good\" student."
sadness	emotional_events	My father won't be so pleased with me as if I was elected \Three á|Good\"."
shame	emotional_events	My sister said I am not a stable person, and I think she is right.
fear	emotional_events	Staying alone in the biology building after the dark.
anger	emotional_events	Being insulted by my roommate (she is in the English Class).
sadness	emotional_events	Not being able to do well to be chosen for the English lecture.
shame	emotional_events	When the class leader read out the names of those chosen for the English lecture and I was not on the list.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out the great difference between China and the West in science.
anger	emotional_events	Saw my unfair report.
sadness	emotional_events	Lecturers being unfair to me in reports.
shame	emotional_events	People impolite with me because I did not get a good report.
fear	emotional_events	My roommate refused to walk with me to the English lectures. I have to walk alone in the dark. Lectures are in the biology building.
anger	emotional_events	My roommate being unconsiderate.
sadness	emotional_events	My best friend was not chosen for the English lectures.
shame	emotional_events	Not doing well in the examn.
fear	emotional_events	My boat running into another boat.
anger	emotional_events	Punished by a leader.
sadness	emotional_events	My teacher's death.
shame	emotional_events	Insulted by a woman in public.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out that I made a stupid mistake in the examn.
anger	emotional_events	Finding out about some girls who have been nice to the class leader in order to go to the neuropsychology lectures (English ones).
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out I am not chosen for the English lectures.
shame	emotional_events	Insulted by classmate in public.
fear	emotional_events	Walking in the dark and thinking about ghost stories.
anger	emotional_events	Had an insulting letter from my father.
sadness	emotional_events	Being misunderstood by friends.
shame	emotional_events	Failed in a piblic argument.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out in your lecture that a doctor can make misdiagnoses because of ignorance in neuropsychology.
anger	emotional_events	Someone talking about me at my back.
sadness	emotional_events	Found out that my grandmother might have been misdiagnosed as a psychiatric patient because the doctor did not know about neurologism.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out that China is backward in science.
fear	emotional_events	Finding out that a boy I do not like is in love with me.
anger	emotional_events	Being told that I have not got a personality.
sadness	emotional_events	Power cut made me unable to listen to the songs sung by my favourite pop star.
shame	emotional_events	Not being able to answer question in a seminar.
fear	emotional_events	Hearing a strange noise in the biology building.
anger	emotional_events	Insulted by other people in the shop.
sadness	emotional_events	My good friend misunderstood me.
shame	emotional_events	I am chosen for the English lectures instead of my good friend and people told me that girls are more likely to be chosen.
fear	emotional_events	Watching a horror film.
anger	emotional_events	Being mistreated by other people.
sadness	emotional_events	Deceived by other people and ran into trouble.
shame	emotional_events	Not doing well in the examn.
fear	emotional_events	Staying alone in the room after midnight and reading horror stories.
anger	emotional_events	Being told that I am a stupid person.
sadness	emotional_events	My parents failed to visit me as they promised.
shame	emotional_events	Saw on TV China not winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympics.
fear	emotional_events	Saw a classmate knocked down by a motorcycle.
anger	emotional_events	Being sexually assulted on a bus and noone helped (people only laughed).
sadness	emotional_events	Being sexually assulted and told my friends about it (we cried together).
shame	emotional_events	Being criticized by teacher in public.
fear	emotional_events	Suddenly found out that I was the lasr one to leave the anatomy room.
anger	emotional_events	Some boys deliberately played tricks on me in the experiments.
sadness	emotional_events	Iqam chosen for your lecture and my best friend is not. Now he is angry with me and I cannot help him.
shame	emotional_events	China not winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympics.
fear	emotional_events	Walking in the dark I saw something strange.
anger	emotional_events	Your prejudice against psychology students and education students (not allowing us to go to the medical university lectures).
sadness	emotional_events	A friend's brother died.
shame	emotional_events	Not doing well in an examn which was easy.
fear	emotional_events	First time in anatomy.
anger	emotional_events	Being insulted in public for the wrong reason.
sadness	emotional_events	Not being chosen for the English lectures (my girl-friend chosen).
shame	emotional_events	Not doing well in examns which I should do well (English examns).
fear	emotional_events	I helped someone to do something and was found out.
anger	emotional_events	Misunderstood by friends.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother was ill and my father was not at home.
shame	emotional_events	China not doing well in the Asian Olympic games.
fear	emotional_events	Before the examn.
anger	emotional_events	Some foreign students playing loud music before the biology examn.
sadness	emotional_events	Finding out that the girl I like does not like me.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out that China does not have enough foreign currency to buy books.
fear	emotional_events	Being alone in the room at night.
anger	emotional_events	Quarreling with classmates.
sadness	emotional_events	My father told me in the letter that my mother is ill.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out that I was deceived by my friend.
fear	emotional_events	Walking out from the biology building.
anger	emotional_events	Someone told me that I was chosen for English lectures because the class leader is going out with me (not true).
sadness	emotional_events	My sister bkoke her leg.
shame	emotional_events	Finding out China is backward in science.
fear	emotional_events	Being chased in the dark by someone I did not know.
anger	emotional_events	My best friend betrayed me and told other people my secrets.
sadness	emotional_events	Disappointed by a friend.
shame	emotional_events	Being sexually assulted in public.
fear	emotional_events	Suddenly met someone in the biology building at night.
anger	emotional_events	Being insulted by my roommate.
fear	emotional_events	Talking about snakes.
anger	emotional_events	People not resprcting my opinion.
sadness	emotional_events	Lost my girl-friend.
shame	emotional_events	Criticized by a teacher in public.
fear	emotional_events	Staying in a relative's house which was broken in before.
anger	emotional_events	Being insulted on a bus.
sadness	emotional_events	Insulted by my mother.
shame	emotional_events	First time going out with a boy and other people laughed at us.
fear	emotional_events	Before an important examn.
anger	emotional_events	My parents do not like my friend and told me to stay away from him.
sadness	emotional_events	My friend not allowed to go to the English lectures.
shame	emotional_events	Ctiticized by teachers in public.
fear	emotional_events	I am afraid of my academic results as I will face several problems.  I am scared of my limitations and the unlimited problems and I do not know how to cope with them.
anger	emotional_events	I quarrelled with my brothers (twins) at home on saturday.  One of them studies in a private school and the other one is repeating his form five.  They do not know what they are doing.  They follow every word of their teachers, books and systems.  They always try to rationalize their bad acts by some game and they are satisfied with their awkward life.  I have tried to persuade them very often but have failed.  This time I had a fight as they have no voluntary spirit (they did not polish the floor).
sadness	emotional_events	I have been thinking of changing my major for a few months.  My original major was Chinese language and it blocks my way.  I have to face many problems at the sametime and I do not know what is real and virtuous.  I do not know if I am not interested in Chinese or if there are other factors which make me sad.  I am not very clear on what I can do for the study of Communication and Journalism.  I am not clear about what I can do.  What are the limitations ?   I hesitate but I feel more adjusted now.
shame	emotional_events	I had obviously done the work badly but my class-mates of the student's association did not blame me, they helped me do the work.
fear	emotional_events	When the doctor told me that there was something wrong with my eye and I had to undergo an operation.
anger	emotional_events	I had left a student newspaper of the Chinese university on the table of the library.  It had disappeared when I came back.
sadness	emotional_events	One of my class-mates had a disease unexpectedly, he had been in a coma for six days in a hospital before he died.
shame	emotional_events	In the compartment of a public transport railway, I did not give my seat to an old man who was standing near me.  It was another teenager who did so.
fear	emotional_events	I was afraid that I would fail an examination.
anger	emotional_events	I had too much homework and examinations and I did not know how to organize my work.
sadness	emotional_events	When I forgot the lyrics during a song contest.
shame	emotional_events	I did badly in the mid term examination.
fear	emotional_events	When I was walking along a road alone on my way to go shopping.
anger	emotional_events	In the student's union there was someone who took the photocopies of two large volumes.  I asked him to let me take a few, he refused it for an acceptable reason.
sadness	emotional_events	When another person's mother died.
shame	emotional_events	In an examination ,which other students found easy I could hardly think and did not know what to answer.
fear	emotional_events	Once while walking along a hill; I fell down out of carelessness and I broke my left arm.
anger	emotional_events	Last week, my organization summoned an executive meeting and one of the executive member's pointed out a loop hole in the committee's administration.  He could not suggest any improvements, so I quarrelled with him.
sadness	emotional_events	The death of my father.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in the canteen of the United college I mistook a stranger for a classmate as I was not wearing my glasses.  I realized that I had made this mistake when I saw him again carefully.
fear	emotional_events	Once at midnight, I was working alone at office and the phone suddenly rang.
anger	emotional_events	When I was concentrating on my work, my friend disturbed me continously.  I asked him to stop but in vain.
sadness	emotional_events	I had asked the teacher to write a recommendation letter for me, but I had not provided enough information and had run short of time.
shame	emotional_events	My companion admired me when I did some work voluntarily.
fear	emotional_events	When I received the higher level exam results, I mistook the grade E in mathematics for a grade F and I was shocked.
anger	emotional_events	I had planned to study for my mid-term exams on a certain day and  my room-mate called me to ask me to go out for a stroll.  I tried to make an excuse so as not to go out but she refused to listen to me and insisted that I go out with her.  I find it unnecessary  to talk to her anymore.á
sadness	emotional_events	Due to some reasons my boyfriend and I decided to separate.
shame	emotional_events	When the teacher asked me a question, I did not know the answer and I just stood still for about a few minutes without saying a word.
fear	emotional_events	Tutorial again !  A fearful feeling came to me when I sat on the chair and looked at my fellow students all around.  I was really scared that they would ask me some questions or challenge the ideas that I had presented.
anger	emotional_events	The trick was really intolerable.  They hid it, and I was worried and restless all day.  When I saw them I really wanted to slap each one of them.
sadness	emotional_events	A and I were walking along the new Asia stairway to the Chung Chi college for our lecture and I saw him with her.  He put one arm around her shoulder and laugher brightly and joyfully.  I did not dare and did not want to look, just walked by them quickly.  The interest of talking to A disappeared and I just wanted to remain silent.  But I did not want A to know and so I left him and went to F.  I should have expected this to happen.
shame	emotional_events	During the lesson the teacher called me and asked me if I had reported that I was late.  I pretended that I had but looking at her eyes I knew that she knew that I was lying.  I thought that it was really bad luck that she had examined the list of the students who were late.
fear	emotional_events	My best frieend left school recently.  The next day the weather turned bad suddenly and the male class-mates turned off the lights.  I remained on the table and was scared.
anger	emotional_events	I was scolded by my mother for no reason.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt that I had been betrayed by my friend.
shame	emotional_events	While dining with some accquaintances I was asked something which I should have known but I did not know.
fear	emotional_events	Waiting for the results of the High level examination.  I was afraid of not being accepted.
anger	emotional_events	I had a date with a friend to see a movie and my friend was late.  I waited for a long hour and was very angry.
sadness	emotional_events	The quarrel between my  parents.
shame	emotional_events	I saw a bag on the street and just then a stranger passed by.  I picked up the bag immediately and gave it to the stranger as I thought that it belonged to him.  But it was not his bag and I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	Once, before I had learnt to swim, I stepped on a slippery slope where there was a lot of moss and I slipped into the water.  The water was very deep and I could not stand on my feet.  I sank and had to use a lot of energy.
anger	emotional_events	[ No response.]
sadness	emotional_events	[ No response.]
shame	emotional_events	[ No response.]
fear	emotional_events	When I saw a horrible movie - Alien.
anger	emotional_events	[ No response.]
sadness	emotional_events	In 1983, my results at the university entrance exam were very poor - far from what I had expected.   I thought that I would not be accepted at the university.
shame	emotional_events	During a lecture six students (including me) were asked to leave the class as we had not prepared for the lesson.  I felt ashamed and angry.
fear	emotional_events	The day before the university results came out I was both excited and scared.  If I failed I did not know what I would do as I did not want to work, my family was ambivalent.
anger	emotional_events	Before the certificate examination I was very poor in Biology (the worst result in my class).  Ever since F.5 it had been getting poorer and poorer.  I had tried my best and had spent most of my time studying this subject.  Finally my results were so bad that I thought that it was just not fair.
sadness	emotional_events	My cat died from an illness.  It had been with us for 7 years.  It was a lovely cat.  It had been ill for one or two weeks and the veterinary surgeon had told us that it was dying.
shame	emotional_events	Our teacher had invited us to lunch and once at the canteen we started introducing ourselves.  Two of the boys showed a lot of interest in knowing personal details and then they started talking about some activities held in the college.  I had little interest in those activities so I talked to another student sitting next to me as I was afraid that they would ask me questions on those activities.
fear	emotional_events	When I forgot the lines of the play during an orientation camp.
anger	emotional_events	Before the department meeting my friend ate a dish that I had prepared for this meeting.
sadness	emotional_events	I had a very short term romance during the summer vacations.  When we first met I felt excited but I wanted to avoid him after we had met a few times and so I proposed that we stay apart, I felt very sad then.
shame	emotional_events	Acting in a play at the orientation camp made me feel timid.
fear	emotional_events	My 80 year old grandfather underwent three successive operations during a single year.  The third operation was risky and I was scared that he would die and feared that my grandmother would be very sad.
anger	emotional_events	My elder brother often criticizes my mother's cooking.  Once he did it very impolitely and lost his temper.  This made all of us very sad.  I was very angry and I scolded him.  He asked me not to interfere with what was his buisness.
sadness	emotional_events	When my grandfather died I was extremely sad.  However my family members did not have any special feelings, they said that he was already 80 years old.
shame	emotional_events	When we received  our academic result I learnt that my  results were bad as I had not done my best.  The results of my accquaintances were good and when they asked me about my results I really did not want to answer.
fear	emotional_events	Fear of the turn that the examination paper would take as I lacked confidence.
anger	emotional_events	Mr C took my drawing pens, without having asked for my permission first, and lost them.  He did not tell me about it till I asked him and then did not try to find them.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt that I had to repeat the first year, I found the solution immediately but was blocked by many difficulties.
shame	emotional_events	After I had given the wrong answer to my students they pointed it out to me and I had to correct myself.
fear	emotional_events	One day a fierce looking man came to our house  and said that my father should apologize to him, however I was alone at home.
anger	emotional_events	My cassmate laughed at me when I was being scolded by the teacher.
sadness	emotional_events	I knew a girl so lovely that everyone would like her.  But she refused to accept my Christmas present and I tried to forget her.
shame	emotional_events	When I was young my mother told the neighbour that I had wet the bed.  I felt ashamed thinking that the neighbour's children would get to know about it.
fear	emotional_events	One night we were having a barbecue on the beach and I needed to go to my car, which was far away from the beach.  It was very dark as there were no street lamps.  I ran in the dark, very scared, I ran as fast as possible.
anger	emotional_events	[ No response.]
sadness	emotional_events	I separated with the one I liked most.  She refused all my dates and told me that she had dated another one.  My heart seemed to cease beating.  I was silent for some time and then I whispered goodbye and left without turning back.
shame	emotional_events	I had lunch in a restaurant with a friend and I paid the bill.  The change was that of a two dollar and a ten cent coin.  As I was talking with my friend I took the two dollar coin and forgot to leave a tip.
fear	emotional_events	After the interview for admission to the university and before the admission list was disclosed.  I was scared that I would not be admitted and my fear lasted for quite some time.  My fear disappeared only after the list was disclosed.
anger	emotional_events	When I was studying in the library - preparing for a test, two people sitting next to me talked to each other for 20 minutes.  There were no other seats so I could not go elsewhere and I did   not want to interrupt them, so I could only be angry in my heart.
sadness	emotional_events	I had been separated from my girlfriend for about a year.  On her birthday I put a present in her mailbox.  I had spent two days choosing a suitable present for her.  I waited for a few days and there was no reply from her; at last I received a thank-you card in my mailbox.  On the card there was only my name, the words thank-you  and her signature.  I was very sad then.
shame	emotional_events	I received the results of the test paper of my major subject and I found that my result was not as good as a classmate who had recently changed his major subject.    I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I remember that my form 2 teacher was very fierce and dogmatic.  My feet would tremble whenever I saw her but I had to face the fact that I had to go for her class.
anger	emotional_events	One night I could not practise my violin as my family was watching T.V with the lights off, so I wanted to listen to some tapes.  It was dark so I asked my brother to bring me a torch, however he scolded me.  I was so angry that I slammed my violin on the floor.
sadness	emotional_events	My mother suffers from a mental illness.  One night she was not feeling well and was sent to the hospital.  I was scared that she would die, and all night I was very sad and did not dare to close my eyes.
shame	emotional_events	I lost my temper at my mother while she was teaching me.  I felt ashamed and sorry at having hurt my loving mother.
fear	emotional_events	When I got the midterm exam results, the results were below average and were near the lowest.  I was scared of the final exam.
anger	emotional_events	When I came back to my hostel, my bed was full of newspapers and dirty clothes.  My room-mate asked me to wash the clothes for him as he had no time (this was his responsibility).  The food we shared had been eaten up by him (I ate little).
sadness	emotional_events	My sister was impolite to my father when the family was having lunch together at a restaurant.  She thought that our parents had been prejudiced against her, this was an extreme thought.
shame	emotional_events	During a meeting I said something wrong and the others laughed at me.
fear	emotional_events	I feared that I would not be able to hand in the book-report on time as I had started working very late.  The book was difficult to read and my teacher did not accept my work as it was handed in late.
anger	emotional_events	My classmate always borrowed my notes and would not return it to me on time.  When I had a test she was selfish and irresponsible and so delayed my studies.
sadness	emotional_events	When I found that my coldness had hurt somebody's sincerity.
shame	emotional_events	My teacher said that being university studets we did not have any self-initiative or self-control.
fear	emotional_events	Looking for the toilet in a dark place.
anger	emotional_events	I gave tutorial to a student and I found that he was lazy, he did not pay attention to what I taught.  He did some easy questions wrong deliberately.
sadness	emotional_events	I saw a lot of starving people in a T.V news report.
shame	emotional_events	I promised a friend that I would return a book to it's owner for him , but I forgot to do it.
fear	emotional_events	An hour before receiving the certificate results I was very frightened.  When I saw others crying I felt very tense and as time went by my fear grew.
anger	emotional_events	My classmate used her personal relations to get a seat for a subject that I wanted also.  I had taken the pains to help him apply and I did not get selected.  I did not like this as he had not told me the facts earlier, he need not have lied to me.
sadness	emotional_events	When my mother went through an operation, it was not very serious but I was sad and could not sleep before the operation.
shame	emotional_events	When I was doing my homework at home, some relatives came and advised me to help my mother do the house-work.
fear	emotional_events	An inter-college basket-ball match.
anger	emotional_events	Something was stolen.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt that my close friend was going to immigrate.
shame	emotional_events	During a meeting.
fear	emotional_events	Once while crossing a road I was overcome with fear.
anger	emotional_events	My intimate girlfriend told me that her father was opposed to our relationship  and had insulted my integrity.
sadness	emotional_events	When my studies are too demanding and I cannot cope with it.
shame	emotional_events	I could not finish my homework on time.
fear	emotional_events	I was not prepared for the exam but I wanted to sleep the night before the exam.
anger	emotional_events	Someone played a trick on me.
sadness	emotional_events	When the thing that made my friends and relatives sad happened to them.
shame	emotional_events	I had something wrong, saying wrong things and being impolite to someone, and this had embarrassed the this person.  And I still meet the person.
fear	emotional_events	The hero was chased by a terrible vampire in a suspense and horror film shown on T.V.
anger	emotional_events	I worked with several classmates on a project.  I was very anxious about the project while my partners showed no concern  and when we had meetings on the project my classmates  did not pay any attention.  Some of them read books while the others argued on irrelevant questions.  The meeting would go on for two hours without the main theme being discussed.  We wasted time and could not reach a compromise.  My classmates avoided doing the work and the responsibilities, they seemed to value other projects more than this one.
sadness	emotional_events	One of my good friends had to migrate to America.  Our friendship had developed quite well and it was a pity as our friendship would fade.
shame	emotional_events	Once my presentation was the worst among my classmates as I had not prepared it well and had not seen it as important.  My presentation was so confused that it clearly showed my poor preparation.
fear	emotional_events	My friend and I had offended our classmate unintenionally.  We wanted to apologize to her so we decided to visit her.  We knew that she was stubborn so we were frightened.  When we rang her door bell, our fear was at it's climax
anger	emotional_events	My girlfriend disliked it when I played majong (a game of gambling).  I expressed my regrets and when I went to see her she neglected my existance.  I was very angry and left in displeasure.
sadness	emotional_events	When I said good-bye to my girlfriend.  I had spent two years on developing this relationship and it was unsuccessful, I felt very sad.
shame	emotional_events	Once in primary five, I had forgotten to take a book to class and the teacher punished me by asking me to stand at the back of the class.  I thought about the way my mother would react if she saw me being punished.  My mother was very good to me and though she did not see me punished, I felt sorry for her.
fear	emotional_events	I was camping in an old broken hut which had no lights.  I had brought along a lamp which was not working very well.  The door made strange sounds and I was sure that strange things were happening.  The most terrifying bit was that there were many wardrobes in the hut and everytime that I looked in the glass of the wardrobe I felt that there were \objects\" behind me.   The á|whole night was spent in fear and restlessness."
anger	emotional_events	During a football match, the other team was rude and they hurt my team members and me.  The coach was prejudiced against us and punished us unreasonably.  Later we fought with each other and the match had to be cut short.
sadness	emotional_events	I heard of the death of a closefriend of mine.  I had gone camping        with him shortly before his death and the whole thing seemed very  sudden to me.
shame	emotional_events	In a Christian gathering's lucky draw I mistook a girl's name for mine (a boy's name).  I realized my mistake only when I went up to the stage for the prize.  I did not know what to do as everyone was looking at me.  I blushed and went back to my seat.
fear	emotional_events	When I went home and there was nobody, I waited till 2 A.M and      still nobody.  I was suddenly scared and anxious as this had never happened before.  In addition my mother was very weak and I feared that she had met with an accident.  Therefore I was anxious  all night.
anger	emotional_events	Yesterday I read in the newspaper that a 30 year old woman had abused her 2 month old son and had caused his death.  I was very angry after reading this as this is not a human act and to abuse so fragile a life is not a forgivable sin.
sadness	emotional_events	I had a schoolmate who went to the hospital as her brain was bleeding.  She fell unconscious for three days and when I went to see her I saw the miserable state the family was in.  Moreover I could not do nothing for her.  I was very sad.  Finally, she died.
shame	emotional_events	One day, when I was sitting on the bus, there was an old woman standing beside me.  I was very tired and sleepy and did not think of giving her my seat.  A 50 year old woman who was sitting beside me got up and gave her seat to the old woman and said,  \ Old woman, please take my seat, the youngstters these days are á|not used to giving their seats to others.\"  When I heard these á|words I was very ashamed of myself and wanted to get off the bus á|at once.  "
fear	emotional_events	Whenever I am alone in a dark room, walk alone on the street, sleep alone in the room at night or see something which is only partly visible.  This emotion was very strong when as an 8 year   old child I saw something horrible.
anger	emotional_events	[ Whenever I put myself in other's shoes and try to make the person happy, comfort him or make friends and I am misunderstood and rejected, especially when this person is a family member or a friend.]
sadness	emotional_events	There was a conflict of interest between me and a close friend of mine.  He only thought about his own interest and not about our friendship.  This behaviour hurt his friends.  Another incident is when a friend isolated himself without giving any reasons.
shame	emotional_events	When I was emotionally unstable I said things which may have hurt others or made them feel unhappy.  When I calmed down I realized that I had been selfish and had not taken into consideration the feelings of others.  Then I felt ashamed as someone pointed out my behaviour to me.
fear	emotional_events	One day when I was a little boy, my friends asked me to play with them outside and to catch some boys.  However our parents did not know that we were out and when I got home it was very late and I feared being scolded by my parents.
anger	emotional_events	When I learnt that a friend of mine had talked about me to another friend and had said wrong things about my abilities and attitudes.  I was very angry.
sadness	emotional_events	About two years ago my girlfriend suggested that we separate.  This really gave me a shock as I had never thought that she would say such things.  The reason she gave me was that we were not suited for each other.
shame	emotional_events	When I was young I felt ashamed when our relatives visited us and I hid myself.
fear	emotional_events	I am scared when I stroll alone on the Chung Chi college campus.
anger	emotional_events	One day, I discussed a very important question with A.  A suddenly declared that he would not accept my position and thought that he himself was right.  Moreover, he attacked  strongly, not my opinion but me personally.
sadness	emotional_events	When I learnt that I had failed an exam,  This not only influenced my emotions but also other important tasks, it also made my record imperfect.
shame	emotional_events	One day I felt dizzy during a lecture.  When the lecturer asked us as to who had heard the fairy tale - I was the only one who put up his hand and this surprised the whole class.
fear	emotional_events	During the first year in university I had bad results in both the terms, especially the first term.  I was afraid that  I would not be promoted to the next year and that the others would go ahead of me.
anger	emotional_events	Once my father slapped my mother for a small quarrel.
sadness	emotional_events	A few years ago my mother suffered from canccer and died within two years.  We had not finished our studies then and could not bear our responsibilities as her children.  My mother had tried her best to take care of us but she lived in pain these two years.  Neither the doctor nor we could do anything for her as cancer is incurable.  I was very eager to replace her in suffernig , even die instead of her.
shame	emotional_events	It was discovered that I had received a warning letter as my G.P.A was very low.
fear	emotional_events	The exam was drawing near and I wanted to prepare for it.  But I had a lot of other things to do so I did not have much time to prepare  for the exams.  Whenever I sat down to study I was scared that I would  not be able to finish it.
anger	emotional_events	A female classmate was always late for meetings which were for the homework and not social gatherings.  We were very busy and the deadline was close but we had to waste half an hour or an hour waiting for her as we could do nothing else then.
sadness	emotional_events	After a meeting ended we started talking about when we would have the next discussion ( I had many tests the coming week and could not have a meeting in between, I thought that they would understand this as they had always done).  They did not understand my problem and thought that I should not have so many other activities.  Their reaction made me burst into tears.
shame	emotional_events	During an informal discussion I contributed a lot even though I had not spent much time studying.  Whenever someone said that someone was not paying attention, or that he had too many other things to do, or that the persoon was not trying his best, I would feel ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	The day the results of the certificate exam came out.  I went to school and at first I did not feel frightened.  By the time I reached the fourth floor ( the results were being given on the fifth floor) I found it difficult to walk and felt that I would die.
anger	emotional_events	One day I had sunned my favourite shirt and was putting it back in the wardrobe when my younger brother snatched it from me and wore it.  He had not had a bath and was very dirty.  I scolded him but he answered back and locked himself up in a room.  I was very angry so I starteed kicking on the door and abusing him loudly and freely.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was a child I was playing on the upper deck of the bed with my brother.  My parents slept on the lower deck.  My father felt disgusted and beat me up.  I felt very sad as my father had never beaten me or scolded me before.
shame	emotional_events	On Christmas eve I went to a classmate's home with other classmates.  The next morning when I came out of the toilet she said something and I did not understand what she was saying.  When she pointed at my trousers I discovered that I had forgotten to zip them up.  I rushed back to the toilet but by the time the others had guessed what had happened.
fear	emotional_events	I was on a trip to Phillipines during Summer and I was staying in a hotel.  The room I was staying in was very silent and had very dim lights.  The last night I felt frightened and lay awake - I could hear some sounds around me and dared not open my eyes - I waited for dawn.
anger	emotional_events	I had a very good friend in secondary school.  The year after our graduation I prepared to celebrate her birthday and I called off all my appointments.  I got together the other friends and we were ready to give the entire day to her.  However this friend disappeared on her birthday.  When I phoned another friend I didcovered thay she was busy, I did not call her anymore.
sadness	emotional_events	I am a Christian but I cannot find any meaning in life . It seems that I am deceiving myself but I cannot find the way out.
shame	emotional_events	I felt shame when I found that I was almost last in the exam.
fear	emotional_events	When I was young I got lost on the street and the police found me after a day.
anger	emotional_events	My sister once stole my mother's money and made her very angry.  After this my mother would beat her up for unreasonable reasons.  One day my sister lent her book to a friend without telling my mother about it.  When my mother learnt this she beat her up and even threatened her with a pair of scissors.
sadness	emotional_events	My academic result was poor and I had to repeat the second year.  I felt sad about the coming several years.
shame	emotional_events	I misunderstood a girl and thought that she loved me.  One day when I was talking to her, her boyfriend appeared and I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	One year, when I went to a camp, I was chased by a dog.  I tried hard and finally managed to escape from it.  My torch suddenly went off and we talked about ghost stories and I thought that there were ghosts.
anger	emotional_events	When I was in F4 I played a basket-ball match against another school's team.  One of their team members kicked a team-mate of mine so I kicked him back and we had a fight with each other.
sadness	emotional_events	I received the mid-term exam paper of one of my major subjects and I found that I had failed it.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in F4 I led my class to a riot.  However the form master said that my conduct was good and asked me to tell him the names of those who had taken part in it.   I replied that I did not know.
fear	emotional_events	I found a problem in homework which would not get solved although I tried my best.
anger	emotional_events	I had a date with my girlfriend, the time and place had not been fixed.  I asked her to phone me an hour later as it was midnight and I did not want to disturb her family.  I waited several hours for her call, she did not call me that night.
sadness	emotional_events	When I found that my ability to do ordinary work was worse than my fellow mates.
shame	emotional_events	My guilty behaviour was found out by others.
fear	emotional_events	[ No response.]
anger	emotional_events	I was a prefect at secondary school.  On the sports day I told others that I would take down the names of the people who misbehaved and after some time I sat down for a brief rest.  Suddenly the head prefect came and scolded me in front of others.  I was very angry as there were other prefects sitting and he picked on me.  I thought that a brief rest was not  serious enough to be blamed.
sadness	emotional_events	[ No response.]
shame	emotional_events	One day I was the leader of the weekly meeting of the Church fellowship.  That day I had been preparing for the exams and did not estimate the time to travel to the church right and I was twenty minutes late.  As I had not prepared well I led the meeting badly.  I was ashamed of myself.
fear	emotional_events	Once, when I was ten, I could not remember why my mother was so angry.  She fainted suddenly and I was very scared as I did not know what to do .
anger	emotional_events	When I got into a bus I found that my wallet had been stolen. It was not a great loss from the monetary point of view but I lost some documents - identity papers.  As a result I had to spend several days in order to get a new one.  I will always remember all the work I had to do and the bad treatment I suffered because of the bureaucratic behaviour of the civil servant.  I had already had bad luck and they treated me like a criminal.   At one point of time I really wanted to quarrel with them.
sadness	emotional_events	I quarrelled with my younger sister because I had said something against her boyfriend.  Consequently she looked through me when she saw me as she thought that I was trying to separate them.  She had misunderstood me.
shame	emotional_events	During the English lesson we were required to do a play.  A few days after doing it the teacher asked us to do it again at a meeting  and I forgot my part.
fear	emotional_events	At noon one Sunday I received a phone call telling me that my mother had been knocked down by a car at the street crossing and that her husband should go and see her.  I could not believe this as my father and my mother had gone out together to buy lunch boxes.  However I immediately ran to the scene of the accident.
anger	emotional_events	The day the results of the Chinese university was announced I should have been very happy; however my grandmother, because of  her prejudice and misunderstanding, started a  quarrel with my mother.  She expected me to take her side and she deliberately talked of my mother's wrong doings.  I was very angry because - one my grandmother was not being reasonable and two because it should have been a happy day and three we had moved into a new house that day.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was in lower six class during the Summer I joined a research group of the Chinese university student union.  I knew a lot of CV students there.  A year later one of them was travelling in mainland China and he got T.B.  He died a few weeks after coming back to H.K.  We all got together for the funeral and when I looked at the body for the last time I felt extremely sad.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in lower six I joined an interview group to interview the general public.  One of my friends in the group lost her purse and she was very nervous.  Five of us had to go another place so we left her, and planned to see her later.  Then I heard her describing how her purse looked.  I realized that I had seen her purse on the floor and had not wanted to do any thing about it.
fear	emotional_events	One camping night, I listened to the ghost stories told by my classmates.
anger	emotional_events	Last week I had planned to play tennis and had booked a tennis court.   However when I arrived at the university gym the clerk told me that the court was being used for lessons.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was ill and had to stay at the hospital for a period of time.
shame	emotional_events	A few days back I had a tutorial class and the teacher randomly assigned one person in each group to make a presentation.  The discussion in our group had been confused and the presentation was not very well prepared.  Unfortunately I was selected to present and I could not keep calm, was confused and result was very poor.  I really felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	After seeing a horror film - Omen.  I could not sleep at night  even though I closed my eyes.  The last scene of the film kept coming back to me, I seemed to hear the girls in the film shouting at the devil.  The devil did not have any expression on his face and I thought that he would choose me.
anger	emotional_events	My friend often played a joke on me and sometimes I thought that he was a nonsensical person. Once when we went to a friend's house he walked in first and shut the door firmly behind him.  I felt that he did not respect me and moreover I was his friend so he should not have behaved like that.  I was very angry (as it is I was in a bad mood then).
sadness	emotional_events	I suddenly found that those whom I considerered to be my good friends did not care for me.  Although I could still be with them I felt unimportant.  I deeply thought about the reason behind this so as to see who was responsible for this.  Finally I made up my mind and decided not to expect too much from them.  I was sad when I decided that they were no longer my good friends.
shame	emotional_events	My teacher reminded us not to do a Summer job, however I did it for two months.  Yesterday I was chatting with my teacher and when we talked of the Summer job, I felt ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	A boy phoned me at night and wanted to talk to me for 30 minutes outside.  I thought that he would reveal what he felt and would question me on our relationship.  I treated him as a friend and did not want any misunderstandings.  Therefore I refused to meet him and told him that I would see him the coming day.  I was very unhappy as I feared having hurt him and got him into trouble.
anger	emotional_events	We had fixed time for practice as we had to participate in the inter-department song contest.  I arrived and found that there was nobody there.  When I went to the canteen I found them eating lunch.  I was so angry that I aired my greviances to one of them and then left.
sadness	emotional_events	A friend told me that he had suffered in love and in academics.  I shared his sadness.
shame	emotional_events	One rainy day when the streets were wet, and as I was walking down a slope, I fell down out of my carelessness.  There were many people and they saw me, so I felt ashamesd.  Moreover I hurt my ankle and it was painful.
fear	emotional_events	When I was young I had gone to an old lift and played with the antique lift.  The guy discovered me and warned me, I was very frightened.
anger	emotional_events	Whenever my father smokes the smell makes me feel very uncomfortable.  He never listens to my complaints and I curse him furiously in my mind.  I cannot solve this problem by violence because of traditional moral values.
sadness	emotional_events	My got my mathematics test's marks and could not believe that it was true.  In the past I would have at least 80% marks.  Was I getting weaker at studies ?  This made me feel that I should not expect too much from going to the university.
shame	emotional_events	When I was in a bus on my way to the examination centre, a man    sitting opposite me kept looking at me continously.  I did not know  what was wrong.  When I reached the  centre I started strolling around  as I still had a little time.  Suddenly a man came and whispered \You  á|have forgotten to zip up your trousers.\"  I was at a loss to say anything  á|and I felt very embarrassed.  When I thought of the bus incident I felt  á|even more ashamed."
fear	emotional_events	After listening to ghost stories with my classmates I had to back alone to the hostel at night.  I had to walk through a long and quiet road and I was scared of meeting a ghost.
anger	emotional_events	I came across a girl at the school bus-stop, I had seen her several friends as she was a friend's friend.  However my friend had never introduced me to her and when she got off the bus I smiled at her but she did not respond pretending not to have seen me.  Her arrogant behaviour made me sick and angry.
sadness	emotional_events	My examination results were not satisfactory even though I had tried my best.  Then I started wondering about my abilities for the major subject.  However I did not know how to choose my major subject if I were to change it.
shame	emotional_events	When I asked my classmate to teach me to do my homework, he asked me to study by myself first but I did not do it.  When he asked me  if I had studied, I felt very ashamed.
fear	emotional_events	I did not do well in one of the subjects last term.   I was afraid that I would fail.  My result was a grade D, though it was not good I still passed.  I felt more comfortable then.
anger	emotional_events	My friend half-teasingly called me a bad nickname.  I felt insulted and kicked his hip in anger.  I was stable later and did not feel angry at him.  In fact I was afraid that the other friends who were with us would think that I was an intolerant person.  However I could not apologize, so I pretended that nothing had happened and smiled when I left.  My friend did not say anything but just watched me leave.
sadness	emotional_events	Last night I did not do very well in one of the subjects.  Before the result was announced I feared that I would fail.  Finally I got a D and as the results of the other subjects were not all      good I felt a little sad.
shame	emotional_events	Once a female classmate told me that the clothes I wore seemed to be a child's clothes.  On hearing this I felt a little ashamed and I criticized her clothes though there was nothing wrong with them.
fear	emotional_events	At primary school the teacher caught me cheating during a dictation.
anger	emotional_events	Someone spread rumours about me.
sadness	emotional_events	One night my father suddenly suffered from a heart attack which lead to breathing difficulties.
shame	emotional_events	I forgot to zip up my trousers, this was not noticed by anyone.
fear	emotional_events	At night when I was alone at home (all the family members usually get together at that time) someone knocked vigorously on the door.
anger	emotional_events	When I saw that my bed at the hostel was a mess I guessed that someone else had used my daily necessities.  I felt that my  personal sanity had been affected.
sadness	emotional_events	During the Physics experiment session I did not understand the content of the experiment and did not know how to do it.
shame	emotional_events	Being unable to stop urinating on the bus.
fear	emotional_events	It was a week before the higher level results were announced.  I had tried and failed many times and this was the last time that I was taking the exam.  I knew that if i failed again I woulld have to enter the society.  I imagined things during this period - I dreamt that I had entered university and it was a nice experience.  When I thought about the future, an unexplainable fear rose in me.  I feared being a worker and not having a bright prospect, I also feared the criticism of my relatives as my brother had gone to university.  Whenevr I thought of this issue I could not eat or concentrate, and my heart beat increased.
anger	emotional_events	The surname of my brother was different from ours.  He often grinned at home and provoked others for the pleasure of it.  This made me angry.
sadness	emotional_events	When I was in primary 6, my father died.  I was very young then and did not know what had happened.  The weeping of my relatives and my tears made me sad.
shame	emotional_events	My friend had many female friends and I thought that they were his lovers.  I would scold him but he did not accept my advice.  Later I learnt from his girlfriends that this was not true.  I felt ashamed at having misunderstood him.
fear	emotional_events	On Christmas eve,1984, I had just finished the exams and was afraid as the results of one of my major subjects had been very unsatisfactory.  I thought that I had only a 50% chance of passing.  Even if I failed this subject I would not need to repeat.  However I liked this subject very much and my results were bad because of my lazyness.  If I was forced to change to a minor in this subject I would be very unwilling.
anger	emotional_events	In September 1984, I was forced to live with someone I did not like.  The first week we were at loggerheads and our conversation was like a debate.  The atmosphere was very bad.  When he learnt that I had got 95 marks in a test he told me \ A failure, You lost á|5 marks.\"   I was very angry, not because my marks were lower á|than his, but because I could not tolerate his pride.  I did not á|show my discontentment and carried on doing my work."
sadness	emotional_events	This issue worried me rather than saddening me.  In mid September I went to Guanggho alone.  I was looking for an accomodation in the evening and after having walked 2 or 3 miles I still could not find anything.  What could I do?  I was not worried about sleeping on the streets but because of some procedural problems.  I finally found a place to sleep at 8 o'clock.
shame	emotional_events	Last Summer I went camping with some C.U students.  As I was working then, I had to leave the second night (some of them had joined us the first night).  Next morning, 6 o'clock, a female classmate knocked on our door and tried to wake us up.  I was not fully conscious and I said something which I should not have.  I realized the trouble I had made and wanted to hide.  Later I said sorry to her and the matter came to an end.
fear	emotional_events	My parents were out and I was the eldest at home.  At midnight a male stranger phoned us and spoke to me in a rough language.  I hung up and heard someone walking outside our door.
anger	emotional_events	Two years back someone invited me to be the tutor of her grand-daughter.  The grand-daughter asked me some questions in mathematics so I taught her.  However she did not listen to me and this made me feel unhappy.  The second year it was the same.  When I entered university the girl's parents suggested that I be employed as their daghters tutor.  They told me that at university  there was no homework and I would have a lot of time so they made a time-table  for me which required me to be the tutor five days a week.  They did not respect me and anyway I had another child to teach.
sadness	emotional_events	I had taken the responsibility to do something and I had prepared for it.  However I failed because of my timidity.  After three attempts I still could not adapt to the atmosphere and failed as before.  I felt imcompetent and felt that the others would think that I had not prepared for it.
shame	emotional_events	I did not do the homework that the teacher had asked us to do.  I was scolded immediately.
sadness	tweets	So annoyed I missed Mitch Benn @ Lemon Tree. damn you What's On!
sadness	tweets	oh no! I just crashed my ball pump
sadness	tweets	Wish we had a garden so we could have a bbq tonight...  might set up a lounge bbq type thing, that'll work. #fridayfirehazzard
sadness	tweets	@brittanytastic aww  that's horrible! xD
sadness	tweets	OH. I am just so tired.
sadness	tweets	My poor phone is nekkid without its cover.
sadness	tweets	Well thats that then. Exam failed and bsc gone
sadness	tweets	@ecorazzi Grrr, people suck. I cry when animals die on nature shows.  These people are sick. No hunting endangered species!
sadness	tweets	@AnnieAreYouOhK No, it's annoying and makes us girls that follow sports and are knowledgable look dumb
sadness	tweets	Everything is annoying me today
sadness	tweets	@Alice286 lucky girl!!! I work all day tomorrow! and maybe even Monday!!
sadness	tweets	I need some cheering up
sadness	tweets	soo tired.. still kinda angry that i missed the concert
sadness	tweets	Stupid competition stuff keeps getting in the way  But I am going to get some words in today if it kills me   @heather_writes
sadness	tweets	leaving now  off to get my angry teethed pulled....
sadness	tweets	@Disney_Dreaming what?! miley's gonna quit hannah montana?...i don't wanna believe it!
sadness	tweets	@Nisher Yeah yeah? How the heck are you anyway? Sastch it up again this year? I had to bail out for lack of expenses
sadness	tweets	crying real tears
sadness	tweets	No launch today. Teacher changed plans and we watched a stupid move about tesla
sadness	tweets	my blow torch has broken  this is a REAL bummer
sadness	tweets	@Spiffums I wasn't near him.
sadness	tweets	My TI89 died. I don't know why.
sadness	tweets	So sad I'm going to miss seeing Pennywise again this year
sadness	tweets	@thejiggerjames  not the same.. Can we party tonight jig
sadness	tweets	Hates moving
sadness	tweets	sooooo, i just dropped my phone.  don't text or tweet me, i'm currently banging my face against a spike covered poison ivy infested wall.
sadness	tweets	Missin my boo
sadness	tweets	Murray just got broken
sadness	tweets	is enjoying a yummy salad, but missing her avocado  that's what happens when your husband does the grocery shop.
sadness	tweets	@roxeecruz ur linky no worky
sadness	tweets	listening through the Mendeed discog once again. I still think their disbanding is a loss.  #metal
sadness	tweets	My friends are mocking my weekend!  @JamesPMacDonald have they been talking to you?
sadness	tweets	you wanna know what's worse... my coworker just brewed a fresh cup of coffee and all I can think about is bacon
sadness	tweets	@TysonDueck Too bad.
sadness	tweets	@thodwris RIP Michael
sadness	tweets	Oww. Can't even describe how much my back hurts. Going to have to go to the stupid doctor.
sadness	tweets	@MynameisDon I ALWAYS miss out! I wont be able to commence in the foolishness til' the fall  But come fall I'll be visiting!! YAY!!
sadness	tweets	Aaaaahhhh.... Friday!!!! but.......     Funeral at 5
sadness	tweets	Sun has been making me happy =] Shame about work tonight  x
sadness	tweets	@Nobilis I feel your pain. Mine is the same way
sadness	tweets	Sad day in the office. Glad it's Friday. Like to get away from this for a while. Poor co-worker just lost her son.
sadness	tweets	Wishes she had a pool
sadness	tweets	Soooo not feeling well and I need to get out of bed
sadness	tweets	well it's not done yet ! 1 more thing left huaaahhhhh ! jupaa, resaaaa awas kaliaaannn !
sadness	tweets	@chrlttgrc nope im nott! i was planning on doing but my aunties come over from america and we're havin this big family meal so i cant  xx
sadness	tweets	@feltbeats That's right... kick me when I'm down.
sadness	tweets	@TearlessPoet hmmm really??? that's weird idk about that one  sowwy
sadness	tweets	@Nic0pic0 Lots of things Nico. Gud news: I have a job Bad news: Its in the middle of nowhere. Got my phone 4 twitter but cnt play videos.
sadness	tweets	sourish limbs is preventing me from gg out on a friday. not happy. i haven't been on at 12am for a v long time...even more so on a fri
sadness	tweets	sick of math
sadness	tweets	@jferlee I didn't see it last night!  Oh well. But I HAVE to watch it in theaters. That's a MUST.
sadness	tweets	@jephjacques my three most hated words are &quot;see you monday&quot;
sadness	tweets	extremely bored.
sadness	tweets	The computer at work hates me.  have to call tech support. Again...
sadness	tweets	I wanna be out in the sunshineeeeeee
sadness	tweets	@mrs_mcsupergirl ok, finished set u free, and i am sooooo mad rite now...it cant end like that, i dont want him to be the bad guy
sadness	tweets	workout stunk...no headphones.
sadness	tweets	headache, headache, go away. come again another day....
sadness	tweets	i wish my drems could come true
sadness	tweets	im at home....on a friday night.  but it's all good!
sadness	tweets	tired and bored, watching movies while i'm home alone
sadness	tweets	Screw it goin back to bed,,ill just go tomorrow ,,,,,kinda sad
sadness	tweets	@tinylegacies *sighs* Ah well.  Maybe my second email will clear it up and get him approved.
sadness	tweets	i hate interviews. im going to do horrible today
sadness	tweets	@BrendonBudness unfortunatley it is the tooth kind of crown
sadness	tweets	@lexie_98 Kevin can't leave work until 2
sadness	tweets	Head ache  Tom's call time is really early because the shows will start at 2:30PM. Recovered like 150+ photos already... 700 more to go!
sadness	tweets	@RoxieDax Ten hours ago, I was was sleeping, sorry.
sadness	tweets	is in route 2 da' beach! No sun yet
sadness	tweets	Aww nobody likes the album I posted after a million attempts  Boohoo
sadness	tweets	I was supported to do things I didn't like,, n when I was about to do what I intrested in,, mom always refused it...
sadness	tweets	I really miss my phone  i cant wait till my new one comes
sadness	tweets	now the pic wont load up on twitter
sadness	tweets	@novemberlight I sometimes fail
sadness	tweets	@fossiloflife was being sarcy as usual
sadness	tweets	@SpookyJenB @diver4skynsea Stop it, you are makin' me sad
sadness	tweets	bad hair day
sadness	tweets	@ToyStory2wasOk The party has to be moved to next weekend  ..stupid weather.
sadness	tweets	@sirhova I was supposed to go to philly as well....bailed out last minute
sadness	tweets	@Cinderell4 bad luck  oh well next time you will be more lucky...
sadness	tweets	Really good concepts at #mozconcept. I *really* love to send something mine, but no time
sadness	tweets	Ugh - car got stolen sometime between yesterday evening and this morning when husband was due to go to work  Like we can afford this???
sadness	tweets	im sad about missing out on the opportunity to be in valencia's new video.
sadness	tweets	Leaving NOLA today  Counting down the seconds 'til I start crying. Love this place so much.
sadness	tweets	@AliceS1 hey, I can't make it to Makers tonight
sadness	tweets	@cbobcreson @silatjunkie  So, @kfrieze just pointed out to me that she has not been able to be involved in this convo for lack an iPhone
sadness	tweets	It has been 24 hours now, since I had my dog put to sleep.  RIP my old friend.
sadness	tweets	I wouldn't mind some sunshine and a walk. Where are you, summer??
sadness	tweets	@windycitypretty that is sickening... Just shoot at will? Smh... Prayers for his family...
sadness	tweets	@Annie713 It's ugly and gray outside even in San Diego. Not too cold, will get to 70, but May-gray June-gloom for us all
sadness	tweets	Finally got a call for marriage counseling 3 days late....
sadness	tweets	Smart cars are the most worthless cars ever made. &amp; it makes me sad how many of them I see anymore.
sadness	tweets	@mmitchelldaviss mitchell i tryed to add you on xbox live lastnight during when i was in your live show, but your friends list is full
sadness	tweets	Gus, formally known as world's ugliest dog has died  We'll miss you, Gus http://bit.ly/exjcn
sadness	tweets	Finally sunny days and I'm too sick to go outside and play.
sadness	tweets	so freaking tired.  It's like my body refuses to move.
sadness	tweets	I fell! I think my knee is broken  but I look fabulous
sadness	tweets	now my ds just died  whatta letdown!
sadness	tweets	@IzzyJ_Is_Here oh hun, i'm sorry... out of everything you've been through, the last thing you deserve is to be unhappy at home..
sadness	tweets	WALC-ers are you ready to cry? its going to be a long day of reminiscing
sadness	tweets	@banjoist123 may I ask what bluegrass means? Sorry in advance for looking a bit silly by asking
sadness	tweets	not long in from sunbathing and burnt
sadness	tweets	@ShellyKramer I've had a fever for the past 48 hours. You should see me. I'm unshaven, puffy face and look pathetic!
sadness	tweets	@morgret Probably not, kinda expensive and we have to work. Most people have off weekends, we work.
sadness	tweets	Headache
sadness	tweets	@devontebrown its cuz you love me. dont make me sad
sadness	tweets	NOO!! XBOX got red rings of death
sadness	tweets	favorite shirt ruined:death by bleach  #fb
sadness	tweets	Missed getting my &quot;Twilight&quot; jacket @ modcloth! Man I wish I didn't have long monkey arms and could of gotten the L instead!!
sadness	tweets	@joaniemaloney yep  which sucks because i thought somewhere it said it was..
sadness	tweets	Suddenly I remember all the memories with him  ohhh please
sadness	tweets	Paid all my bills only to go out to the mailbox to find more of them
sadness	tweets	No one wants to sit with me at lunch  I guess I'll just bury my head in my laptop and continue to be anti-social.
sadness	tweets	I think my book is gone forever... we mourn forever  SHIT!
sadness	tweets	is a failure
sadness	tweets	I misses my bed  so sleepy!
sadness	tweets	Earthlink says our modem is dead.  They want me to buy a new one or sign up for a one year contract ARGH!!!
sadness	tweets	Frustrated with copying 13Gigs across USB 1.1.Stupid old servers
sadness	tweets	Drag me to hell soundtrack from Christopher Young is delayed from june 2nd to july 7. That's SUCKS pretty bad.
sadness	tweets	Ben &amp; Jerry's fail. Got email for free ice cream. Says click here to redeem coupon. When I click, I get error message  @cherrygarcia
sadness	tweets	Listening to Opeth. Trying not to think about missing their show in San Antonio. Failing
sadness	tweets	Almost fell asleep under the hair dryer  so tired, feel like I'm going to puke
sadness	tweets	@eightwednesday @emilyhilleren I lost that membership when I got boosted to the 3 D club.  It's lonely.
sadness	tweets	wow, I didn't realized that there is a limit to the &quot;more&quot; button. That sucks... I guess two days is the max to not sign in to twitter.  !
sadness	tweets	i need new running shoes!! my feet are completely torn up
sadness	tweets	@jkblacker Unfortunately I'm not @jamesog - someone's squatting on that
sadness	tweets	Young love comes to an end
sadness	tweets	im well bored  had a great half term and i dont wanna go back to school on monday :'( enjoying the hot weatler lo0l ;)
sadness	tweets	Dang my own LDBF didnt give me a Follow Friday shot out
sadness	tweets	This is what I am drinking instead of beer: Airport is out of beer.. At least it is carbonated...  http://mypict.me/1Zu9
sadness	tweets	@xxxmaggie oh that sucks  I'm sorry.
sadness	tweets	i could tell its gonna be an angry day...
sadness	tweets	NW Macedonia: Few rainy days in a row.
sadness	tweets	I hate it when my sweetie has a bad day  http://tinyurl.com/lr22dj
sadness	tweets	@verbs_n_nouns ikr? my parents take the cake tho, they don't grocery shop and they go out to eat all the time just them 2...
sadness	tweets	@philispig  Is competition around the corner? if not take it slow for at least a week. Twisted my ankle back in jc, awfully painful.
sadness	tweets	@jmorgan0909 and I'm not getting another one ... There's only 1 alfie
sadness	tweets	@AC_1 welcome to the twitter world Andrew! tell david to have a twitter too haha just kiddin' i know he doesn't want to have one.. booo..
sadness	tweets	I think it's unfair I have to miss the sun  all places of work should be closed an writing essays should not be allowed when it's sunny!
sadness	tweets	headache
sadness	tweets	Co-worker's last day  we are going to miss her
sadness	tweets	Evermore &amp; End of Fashion rocks! My poor foot though! oww! injured my foot. not good. will be sore tomorrow.  details to follow  later
sadness	tweets	ughhh studying for finals i wish i could go to prom
sadness	tweets	Sometimes I forget that boys have feelings too
sadness	tweets	I also think that I'm talking to myself now. Okay I need to get to bed. BTW, I miss my brothers.
sadness	tweets	@tommcfly It's 12:30AM, @buonotomato stopped tweeting, my brain's not functioning. I wanna cry. Haha. Philippines tour, please?  Love ya!
sadness	tweets	ate all my chocolate
sadness	tweets	moving back home today. pro: obnoxiously closer to @thom1937 con: no more mpls runs/excursions for at least a year.
sadness	tweets	@saxa246  ive been trying to get over her for years, its so hard to move on, when youre so in love..it sucks
sadness	tweets	@pairadocsdesign and Radio X 96.1 is going all sports next month. Radio is dead.  #grandrapids
sadness	tweets	(sigh) guess we're not gonna meet up today.
sadness	tweets	i DID argue with byron because he said im fat
sadness	tweets	Wish I was in Chicago.
sadness	tweets	So I slept 12 hrs! My body is aching
sadness	tweets	@erickadiaz I get to go to coffee now  It's no fun. I hate it too!
sadness	tweets	@billbathgate im not a doofus  it could happen wahhh!!! :'(!!!!!!!!!! im on my break!!
sadness	tweets	@nikkibop and he's not even fat!!!! Huh, @freyalynn? He's just friggin huge!  I have a freak.
sadness	tweets	left the inn  now im at school. dang its straight up dead here!! [&lt;3Hannah]
sadness	tweets	Blah to car repairs... almost 600 dollars...   Shopping around for a better deal.
sadness	tweets	@hootsuite  Darnit.  See what happens when I avoid teh interwebs for work.
sadness	tweets	my apartment is emptying out more &amp; more each day.. so sad.. last week at 2000
sadness	tweets	@alyssa133 awww i'm sorry  what kind of fish did you have?
sadness	tweets	Why are some guys so stupid? They have no idea what to do with a good girl who actually cares about them..so sad
sadness	tweets	@simonprobert yep, supposed to last all weekend. filthy weather
sadness	tweets	heading to the dmv to pay them my hard-earned money
sadness	tweets	How do you forgive yourself for hurting the one you love the most?
sadness	tweets	@MattyP_654  it's this damp weather...
sadness	tweets	@scarletty24 i know.. i suck.. i'm a master procrastinator  ... you guys don't have too much fun without me
sadness	tweets	last day off... back to work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	wishing i was on a beach right now!!
sadness	tweets	Is not a happy bunny
sadness	tweets	@Lesley_M Melted maybe 2 square inches of skin. Ran it under cold water for a min or two and then iced until the ice melted. Now, hurts
sadness	tweets	Tbh having no credit in your phone sux. i cant even text people to see what's happening, like its totally grrrsville
sadness	tweets	it will be my second year that i will not be there
sadness	tweets	@FRANK_URQUIDEZ I MISS U
sadness	tweets	43416 I miss you so much my heart is aching without you bub  http://is.gd/Ja9I
sadness	tweets	being far too vigorous with pruning and regretting the removal of too many cucumber flowers off cucumber plant.
sadness	tweets	@tommcfly Tom , today my school played POV at the break , and I almost cryed !  your show in sao paulo is today ! I wish i could be there!
sadness	tweets	oh i just check my stock port. My marketing was unable to buy me TICON at best price
sadness	tweets	@cameronmarion me too  no one even liked my answers to life last night, pshh
sadness	tweets	@JHall510 I'm good just bored at work
sadness	tweets	Oh PW, you done me wrong. The signing time in ur children's article are all wrong...and no Neil Gaiman?! You tease me.  #bea
sadness	tweets	Jeff can't get his visa in time to come visit me!    I'm so sad.  In other news, I'm going to Lapa tonight to samba the night away.
sadness	tweets	sooo tired of this cubicle
sadness	tweets	laying in bed listening to opticon. i miss joe veneck
sadness	tweets	when i cheered,i yelled SHAKE THESE at the end of a chant and did the suck it &quot;X&quot; and got suspended &amp; had to give a public apology,lol
sadness	tweets	@redhalo_pax goddamn   that fucking sucks *hugs*
sadness	tweets	Will miss my baby for 2 days
sadness	tweets	I'm so tired idk what 2 do...and I have 2 much 2 do ...church 2 nite, gotta write sermon, wash &amp; flat iron hair, eat! so so much 2 do
sadness	tweets	at wk wishin I was at Annies grad ceremony but coodnt becuz of sumthin I dnt care to mention... sooo sad
sadness	tweets	It looks like the office TV DOES get MLB Network... and it looks like MLBN will NOT be televising the DET/BAL game today  #wieters
sadness	tweets	Had drums, but they where made up of other peoples sets, so, had to give them all back
sadness	tweets	its freezing cold! i cant function right in this type of weather. starving to the max
sadness	tweets	Legs are hurting because I was standing up all day.
sadness	tweets	I gave my brother a hug good-bye.. as he took a load of furniture away from the house. He took the mattress I like
sadness	tweets	@Rumpelwald : ne, muss noch 2 Woche warten
sadness	tweets	@saynerd01 @ericajo42   GRR! my stupid meebo is disconnecting me every 5 seconds
sadness	tweets	Super pumped to do the &quot;Relay for Life&quot; tonite. I am walking in honor of my sweet Grandpa '06 and my Uncle Howard who past just yesterday
sadness	tweets	I miss the old... HA, HA. I can't tell that person's name.
sadness	tweets	i'm freezing in math class!
sadness	tweets	Gah! Buddy K is a must hang with person right now I miss him.  Along with Parker and McPhee.
sadness	tweets	I have a feeling today is going to be very boring ! Work @ 3  till 9:30
sadness	tweets	Been working on my freakin' computer trying to save stuff on a harddrive and it seems I failed miserably.
sadness	tweets	Kerry threw a ball at Anand; it bounced off his head, landed on my lunch and it exploded everywhere.
sadness	tweets	taking care of sick children
sadness	tweets	I have tummy ache.  Probably not helped by eating /that/ many tic tacs.
sadness	tweets	@msignorile  Weather sucks up here
sadness	tweets	back to work
sadness	tweets	Got my hair cut. Great.  stupid gum.
sadness	tweets	my computer at work is not working...booo... need a new one!  TGIF!
sadness	tweets	Regrettin some of the decisions I made
sadness	tweets	@jessner12 you suck majorly  i'm swamped...so why am I on twitter...I don't know...but still  a golf tournament?
sadness	tweets	@BrentO She! Maybe that was our first mistake.  Not everyone is as cool as @sqlfool  (brown nose moment)
sadness	tweets	at work and it sucks big time
sadness	tweets	Saying goodbye to a good trusted friend today. Goodbye free Sky TV, you were the best friend anyone could have had.
sadness	tweets	Crappy Day...
sadness	tweets	has the urge to go shopping.hmmm but i've got no money,how?
sadness	tweets	Well poop, my guitar lesson was canceled today  I'm so sad. I hope his son feels better soon tho.
sadness	tweets	@pilarlovesyou  i love you. don't leave me!
sadness	tweets	Shaw guys are over when I want to be sleeping
sadness	tweets	my tummy hurts
sadness	tweets	@Hi_Im_Chris and i cant get to mine  keep getting an error
sadness	tweets	Was talking to Vincent  Miss him so baadly.
sadness	tweets	Mourning Venus' Third Round Loss....
sadness	tweets	@jonkragel I have been sick for like 5 days now...
sadness	tweets	@Cece602 no it's just going to be me we couldn't come up with enough money to get his ticket
sadness	tweets	i failed at cutting and peeling the mangoes  hah. it was weird trying and my father did it like it was nothing.
sadness	tweets	isn't lookin 4ward 2 work 2mz.. n if its gna b like 2day-weatherwise- itl b even worse  xo
sadness	tweets	@joycewaddle like almost above my sholders
sadness	tweets	@melissajeanine ew.  sorry zach
sadness	tweets	@LindseyNHess I agree 100^%! It's a great day! If only I had a window to see it...
sadness	tweets	Trip to DC next week canceled.  So, no Artomatic or beer with @genehack.
sadness	tweets	I'm going on an excursion this week, so I won't be twitting....
sadness	tweets	@paulo_one yes it went down smooth! Too bad I have to get back to work though  how are you enjoying your Friday?
sadness	tweets	@MouseGoesSqueak ahhhh.same here with Geometry, like i said b4, if i didn't have it, i would be graduated!! so i feel ur pain hun!
sadness	tweets	I can't comment directly to someone...... and I'm here all alone
sadness	tweets	i hate getting put on steroids. my face
sadness	tweets	@scavengerlor LoL Clever I'm Extremely Jealous Of The Amount Of Followers You Have  I Only Have 24
sadness	tweets	@SaschaIllyvich i guess that means you didn't beta-read either of my stories, huh?
sadness	tweets	We are so sad the beautiful Marisa dresses are leaving today (tear)
sadness	tweets	Refusing to accept that the US holiday is over. Heading to Woodies Longboard  Diner in um ... Hove...
sadness	tweets	just got back home, shit.. again meeting tmrw,staying at sea view, i even dont my fresh undergarments  tiring, 13 hrs working days
sadness	tweets	Manchester was wayyyyy to busy!  so warm today also! :'(
sadness	tweets	i lost friends, when i didnt do anything
sadness	tweets	Day off with nothing to do
sadness	tweets	bad day
sadness	tweets	Wish I was eating lunch w/ @laddiecatherine and @ophieracine
sadness	tweets	@Christy_Edmonds Oh, I'm sorry   You'll have lots of fun though, should be a great time!
sadness	tweets	I kno I'm behind the times on this one, but I just learned that Troy &quot;t-bag&quot; Dixon died back on dec. 8th 2008. RIP Troy.
sadness	tweets	@sarahbellafina sleep? I need to go to my mums but by the time I get there, Clara will be in bed
sadness	tweets	Just burned my tongue!!
sadness	tweets	is sad cuz my mommy leaves to indy today
sadness	tweets	I'm off to a fun filled evening at a funeral home ...  Joy.
sadness	tweets	Ugh the delivery was postponed, shes not having the baby til 5 and i'll be at work
sadness	tweets	At work my head hurts a little due to my neck! I hate when I sleep wrong!
sadness	tweets	@mscrismusic wish u was in the D!
sadness	tweets	@chaletlaforet shit that is awful... could not believe it at first... so sad
sadness	tweets	@brett can you fedex me some pizza? I have to cancel my NYC trip until later this summer
sadness	tweets	@elainanic Hope that migraine doesn't stick around for too long.
sadness	tweets	@calikiks  asap. But..... Kids are asleep. I have a car seat for arianna. We can take her with us? I need to pay vs bill!
sadness	tweets	@sweetpea2809 Nor here... Sad times
sadness	tweets	@emmielovegood ive tried and tried in the past to learn cockney but sadly its near impossible to find books and things on it over here.
sadness	tweets	Hates leaving teddy ... Now I'm miss both my boys  damn
sadness	tweets	@kujakupoet My computer got screwed to hell by viruses. I just finished wiping the drive and reinstalling Windows XP  I want a Mac...
sadness	tweets	@noiseporn Would defo have done that but Im already booked over t'other side of the country
sadness	tweets	I guess it wasn't meant for me to change it
sadness	tweets	@sexxieluv dang....just so far away aren't I?    Darn I'll just have to dream
sadness	tweets	@kylehamilton Wow, just saw your Tweet about the Proflowers fiasco. That's so not fun!
sadness	tweets	@diesel_26 i wish you were here to take care of me
sadness	tweets	because I just lost my first Field Notes notebook 6 pages before filling it up!! RIP  #fieldnotes
sadness	tweets	didnt enjoy having to say goodbye to alex, v emotional times  but the sun is making me happy !
sadness	tweets	Brother #3 is wandering around the house in his underwear. As charming for his 2 sisters as it is for the other female guests, I'm sure
sadness	tweets	Damn. Stephane doesn't even feel sorry for me. Off to work then
sadness	tweets	@NancyLeeGrahn IS she in grade 5?  I can't do my daughters grade 4 math...soo sad
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/66vld - i don't like this bangs! I want my hair back!
sadness	tweets	dis damn usb charger is good for nothin. gotta find that verizon store. my fone been dead since last nite
sadness	tweets	@mdfogarty Im so very sad that i am at work today and cant win tickets
sadness	tweets	the sun burned me today....my arms look angry  Party tonight tho babes! woop!
sadness	tweets	I need to get in a good, hard workout today after work, I feel like I've been slacking! No good
sadness	tweets	Bloody exams next week
sadness	tweets	@thecomicproject It's sunny and hot in London today, while I sit in office cranking spreadsheets
sadness	tweets	@indysawhney seems like u r just pushing your #wcm site. i really cant beleive you are an IT pro and havent heard of #joomla or #drupal.
sadness	tweets	Is working all weekend
sadness	tweets	Beer, garden, IPOD, Friday night, shame I've got to work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	is back from the park and is very sunburnt  cant wait 4 @totallywiredm 2night,and is gonna get smashed..bein sober jst wnt b as fun!
sadness	tweets	@jhaywardbenzal ouch. I hate it when that happens.
sadness	tweets	@AdamBMusic ik, i feel sooo bad for them
sadness	tweets	WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON?!?! Last night and this morning SUCKED... More moving tonight.
sadness	tweets	i need a jb but i dread the fact that it will have to be retail this summer
sadness	tweets	@geminianeyes it didnt  - from research the traffic in this beautiful system of twitter is approx 100msg/second.. mine only grabs 6msg/sec
sadness	tweets	Starting to get sad.
sadness	tweets	Feel like death  evil headache and need to pack and drive to parents. Bum.
sadness	tweets	i reaaally need you
sadness	tweets	@lifesaver45 that sucks.
sadness	tweets	@cindyefolson the signal that makes your internet &quot;go&quot; is pretty bad  getting a tech out will get that fixed up, though!
sadness	tweets	R.I.P. Sammie the Cat
sadness	tweets	at home. have very sore feet. and am sad because the sale of my grandas house just went through. miss you
sadness	tweets	In the middle of breakfast the school called.Yep...back to get Shey...AGAIN.3rd migraine this week or maybe one that never went away
sadness	tweets	Damn...the right side of my earphones just stopped working all of a sudden. Now I need to buy new ones...
sadness	tweets	ooh my icecream's gone  oh no wait i got another 2 boxes on the freezor! yumm
sadness	tweets	I have never had a Starbucks coffee in my entire life, people keep making me jealous
sadness	tweets	@ScrapShoppeEtsy rt i have had few hearts the past few days on etsy  boo hoo....totally the same for me too ((((((
sadness	tweets	I think Ive buggered up my mobile  ack. I am a stubborn arse and refuse to get a new one.
sadness	tweets	Weekend is getting close. Too bad I'll be stuck up north  Hopefully I'll be able to get out next weekend for some real life fun.
sadness	tweets	@Steffisticated If they recorded it and sent it to people, they obviously meant for it to get out there.  But if they didn't, I feel bad.
sadness	tweets	have to put my dog down tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	My sunglasses broke
sadness	tweets	waiting for aaron to get into town, and then leave him for work. booo
sadness	tweets	@dsml dont depress me  I have the mother-in-law staying the weekend. Someone else to wait on other than the kids!
sadness	tweets	@BigzFlygerian sorry but I'm not impressed in the slightest b/c u don't eat pussy..more like saddened and confused
sadness	tweets	: why is it so cold!?!?!
sadness	tweets	@Starry1968 you're surrounded by them! I have no official nieces/nephews yet
sadness	tweets	is becoming edgy bcause the lappy has not arrive yet
sadness	tweets	Another favorite local place bites the dust: Con Sabor Cubano, the place I go to for the most amazing Cuban sammiches, is closed
sadness	tweets	@meerasapra seriously.. it used to spend most of the time in my house..
sadness	tweets	Where is the boss... I'd like to have my check and leave please!
sadness	tweets	We're not gonna be able to talk again
sadness	tweets	michael scholfield is no more. He is dead. I am sorry
sadness	tweets	had a good day but im now skint again
sadness	tweets	gross. it's hot, and there's cotton EVERYWHERE.. hello allergies.
sadness	tweets	Thought she wuz my best friend...
sadness	tweets	Is still tired  due to late nights out and work and has to b up early again 2moro 4 work bad times!
sadness	tweets	Oh well, there go my hopes for seamless transfer of blog  however I am now on track and will have it up and running sometime this eve
sadness	tweets	Im so tired and sick  i have to be better on Sunday so i can sing morning and night
sadness	tweets	@danecook Sooo SAD I will miss you here in San Diego!!!
sadness	tweets	@ work again
sadness	tweets	BREAKING NEWS: The broiler at Burger King is down. There will be no burgers at Burger King at lunch!  At least Chicken Fries were there!
sadness	tweets	Time flies...and i never got it all right. Why oh why?
sadness	tweets	I am loving this sunshine and hating the thought of my office without windows
sadness	tweets	Selling my Bonnaroo ticket.  Can't get any time away from work. Anyone in the DC area interested? I can meet up!
sadness	tweets	@inlovewitharmy Southridge was moved a week later cause of Swine flu, i think
sadness	tweets	@DanielFielding Yeah. It totally sucks.  I hate not being able to breathe! Thanks for the ff!
sadness	tweets	@zarigee i got mcdonalds, surpisingly its not a popular drunk food option.  its sucks that all diners aren't 24hrs here anymore
sadness	tweets	Oh My God ..  sad day ..
sadness	tweets	Working late with only The House of Love for company. Just what I want to be doing on a summer evening when I should be out with people
sadness	tweets	any other Mac users completely given up on Google Chrome?
sadness	tweets	@BiggaBX Yes, It's only fair  lol
sadness	tweets	so much for a day off- I've been on my feet, all over the place, all day!
sadness	tweets	@TiwuRayie geez! one time in a row.. patience! good things comes to those who patience. lol. i wish i could sleepover..
sadness	tweets	@suzbooze I wanna go, but I so freaking broke   Have fun for me
sadness	tweets	thirty minutes turned into three hours. oops
sadness	tweets	YawNnnnn _slight headache n hangover grrr
sadness	tweets	i miss the one who would do anything to spend 5 min with me... the one who used to say just tell me when and where
sadness	tweets	G'night world. Vacations have to end some day.
sadness	tweets	Omg. I got no sleep again. Neighbors are building a deck &amp; they've been starting @ 5:00am. I'm SO tired. Feel like I just took Benadryl
sadness	tweets	has a gym day and is hoping to enjoy the last Friday of her twenties.
sadness	tweets	feels slightly better but damn i sure do miss him.....he's going to be so hard to get over......  i messed it up ...donuts=comfort
sadness	tweets	so bored at work, its ridiculous, and my Saturday is going to suck with class in the morning
sadness	tweets	Hate being sick  especially when there's no one to pamper me
sadness	tweets	Ugh. Going to skool
sadness	tweets	mcfonalds roulette i i lose. they forgot mygrilled snack wrap
sadness	tweets	Playdate cancelled
sadness	tweets	PINKPOP weekend &amp; I've got NO tickets, meaning no BRUCE Springsteen  Oh well, it's WWWWWEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEKKKKKEEEENNNNDDDD!!!!!
sadness	tweets	never thought i'd say this, but i miss my 9-5 job, the commute, my cubicle, free food &amp; coffee and being downtown. why did i quit?
sadness	tweets	aaaah taking back sunday are playing in new york 3 days after we leave
sadness	tweets	I dont feel well  i got a dentist appointment later.
sadness	tweets	@PoynterJones can I join you in your jealousy?  :L
sadness	tweets	Back @ work, migraine lingering   Can't wait for the weekend!
sadness	tweets	Ugh soooo much work to do today while trying to make the 6:10 train to the game... looking like a 4-5 hour Sunday at the office.
sadness	tweets	@holmescnn Oh, I didn't realize its on at 830 as well- already at work- or as today still in the car, don't ask
sadness	tweets	You know your neck is jacked up when you are forced to pay for parking bc you can't turn you head to parallel park in the free spaces...
sadness	tweets	forgot to wish sister happy birthday yesterday.
sadness	tweets	my parents sold my car.
sadness	tweets	I miss you guys
sadness	tweets	Goodbyes ... Hurt
sadness	tweets	My parents withdrew permission at the last moment, I am not going along with tomorrow's SAC trip to IDP camps  #Pakistan #IDPRelief
sadness	tweets	enjoying the great sunshine.. from indoors.. I don't feel good today
sadness	tweets	I'm over @ringorang today.  3 wrong answers in a row.  My brain's not working today.
sadness	tweets	@lilivonshtupp I'd rather go to the matinee but I have to work  Still debating whether I should go cos going alone is no fun haha
sadness	tweets	Still havent left the house yet. This is rediculous! REALLY!   S*D*P* &amp; T*K*K*
sadness	tweets	Boys are sitting down for photos, no touching and no handshakes allowed.  #asylm
sadness	tweets	im still devastated about manchester united losing the UCL final
sadness	tweets	Oh darn. Lost another follower.
sadness	tweets	i woke up just now missing alabama terribly  my dad says we will be moving there. soon. thank god
sadness	tweets	@itsfrankybitch  dont make me sad... i do agree tho it does need some more of SA's magical lyrics
sadness	tweets	Why is it soooo cold &amp; ugly out??
sadness	tweets	No more Wiffleball..  Damn.
sadness	tweets	a female robin just flew into my window and I watched her die in my bushes...  i think i am going to cry now...
sadness	tweets	has bronchitis and is on 3 prescriptions. No fun at all. Had to miss two days in a row of work.
sadness	tweets	@nellclothing I cancelled a run in favour of... staying in. Wish I monies for pubulation tho
sadness	tweets	GrimeStopper loss  client lost their job so we did too. Hope the quote later today turns into more work. Drowned my sorrows w a huge h ...
sadness	tweets	@AnnaVodka I'm sorry to hear that! that makes me sad
sadness	tweets	@i_am_umlaut oh no!  i'm very sorry to hear
sadness	tweets	@Jamie_127 poor baby  you need some aloe. Nope sorry no hints
sadness	tweets	The Oddo's grandfather passed away in his sleep
sadness	tweets	doesn't get to see her fav5 today like planned
sadness	tweets	I saw amazing heeels. But they were too big
sadness	tweets	bout to go to work
sadness	tweets	I watched wayyyy too much Beverly Hills 90210 today and I am not proud of that fact.  TV FAIL
sadness	tweets	I am soooo hungry. But waiting for bf to get home, he has car trouble and is waiting for the mechanic to help him...
sadness	tweets	skype call with billie but my webcam dont work
sadness	tweets	@rafealAnthem yes i am and i was ready to go when i got here. ugh  and its sooo pretty outside..
sadness	tweets	@esull have a great camp!!!!! Wish I could be there.
sadness	tweets	@MissCaseyB I know what you mean  rain sucks...
sadness	tweets	@MsHalfway I want to go back to school too *sigh* - but I am too poor
sadness	tweets	Last day of high school  i'm gonna miss all my friends
sadness	tweets	@hithit  missing jmichelle... told you treat me like a step child! smh
sadness	tweets	@neeshababyyy they won't  guys are retarded!
sadness	tweets	@inlovewitharmy What timeeee? My mom says I have to do something daw tomorrow, eh. But we're never compelte!
sadness	tweets	Why didn't my favorite spotters last tweet go to my phone
sadness	tweets	i'm still full from the buffet at palms.  my stomach actually hurts. ugh gluttony bites.
sadness	tweets	Off to play Tennis at Bel Air, courts are wet  but, we will play anyway.
sadness	tweets	charlies roastbeef: mostaza no manejamos. WTF?
sadness	tweets	@iamdiddy - Me. because my ex boyfriend of 2 years (we broke up 2 months ago) is engaged to his gf of 6 weeks.  sad, embarrassed. Hug?
sadness	tweets	i was too slow to get $1 Up tix
sadness	tweets	shit's depressing
sadness	tweets	So...woke up in time just for work.....boo
sadness	tweets	@ 5 happiness (chinese) totally disappointed  the food is USUALLY good *FAIL*
sadness	tweets	@SweetHomeBirth  link isn't working
sadness	tweets	@world_of_max Sadly, no. Now David Tennant has left I don't particularly want the job anyway
sadness	tweets	not at all happy...dont know what the reason is
sadness	tweets	@DinerokidMayo Im upset cuz now everyone agrees
sadness	tweets	apparently you are not getting on anymore... sad
sadness	tweets	I need to sit  my insides hurt ughhh
sadness	tweets	@dorritos @repressd i get migranes.. so @repressd.. that leaves you to either arthritis and/or gout!
sadness	tweets	argh! why why why
sadness	tweets	possibly going out tonight; is there ANYTHING to do in Lancaster? I miss Baltimore
sadness	tweets	@pilmorelee you beggar! Making me feel homesick
sadness	tweets	@frgmnt I know, lame.
sadness	tweets	Rope witdrawal in full effect, no one to tie, no teaching, no demos, no one to play with. But worst of all - No one to play with!
sadness	tweets	Rachael makes me want to cry
sadness	tweets	@katebuckjr Sorry I can not reach either URL
sadness	tweets	not feeling well at all today! ugh cant I just go home.
sadness	tweets	My eyes hurt.
sadness	tweets	@dutchraymond yeah I didn't realize how bad it all was till now
sadness	tweets	has today off! But has to work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	being lazy the rain does that to me  gym&amp;&amp;tanning is possibe, work &amp;&amp; a small social gathering around tha corner
sadness	tweets	Can't give blood within a year of getting a tattoo so I can't give...Im gutted
sadness	tweets	my head huwwts
sadness	tweets	I have to go to work with out my @andrajoi and @treykinkade
sadness	tweets	@vosdjs LOL yea the fondue is on point... but that Chocolate Lava Cake is what you really want...but I wont be here   Im Mon-Fri babes!
sadness	tweets	That's it? It's done already? This is one proof that there's nothing fair in this world.   http://bit.ly/10UEMq
sadness	tweets	I've been offered Fred on loan but I has no moniiieeeess...
sadness	tweets	@APStylebook I know, but I need some things in my life to be constant
sadness	tweets	Is youtube not working properly for anyone else? I can't watch videos because they keep failing to load
sadness	tweets	no luck in goin to forum.. im about the only person on earth not goin out
sadness	tweets	Starving. And Alyssa's mom would bring her subway.
sadness	tweets	has new headphones but no mp3 player yet  http://plurk.com/p/x258n
sadness	tweets	@risquethaianna i cant go swimmin any more
sadness	tweets	@tommcfly sweet .. Englands becoming lamer and lamer since you guys left
sadness	tweets	i got a haircut, i felt like that guy on the &quot;Last Samuri&quot; who was forced to have his ponytail cut off.
sadness	tweets	@GLAMvoy Yes I think so unless it changed.  I sent u a happy mothers day text but u never responded back
sadness	tweets	@emaxio still @ the courthouse!     Happy to have a job... sad its this one!
sadness	tweets	@tearose21 Wish I could be there to enjoy a girls day!!!
sadness	tweets	And it's gone.
sadness	tweets	Im here at work super bored
sadness	tweets	to cold for the beach  sucky.
sadness	tweets	@Berumen4 No.  Just sitting around sculpting tiny koi.
sadness	tweets	O.k i feel like i need to cry now  i can't believe that in less than 2 years ill be walking across the stage to get a High School diploma!
sadness	tweets	@Jonasbrothers Just saw the webc. awesome! i loved all the songs! im sad cuz i couldnt be there  had 2 wake up early and it started at 1am
sadness	tweets	So now we'll pay more in sales tax...great.  Even worse Mom and Pop businesses have to double what they pay in business licenses.
sadness	tweets	is stressin h-core. and is supposed to be cleaning her room. and feels like crap.
sadness	tweets	back from lunch and it's pouring rain! ugh  ohh well at least it gets me into a Death Cab For Cutie mood!
sadness	tweets	@Mad_Gab  We should bask in misery together
sadness	tweets	i feel super sick
sadness	tweets	http://wave.google.com/ &lt;3 Google ... wish they'd spend a bit more time adding bits to Chrome though
sadness	tweets	my head is bruised really bad :|
sadness	tweets	I hate it when I am in pain
sadness	tweets	I'm trying to find a pic for twitter but all that  ihave are too big or can't upload. So I shall remain faceless  lol
sadness	tweets	@crystaaale wtf kinda best friend am I? I *still* haven't met the hubby. That depresses me
sadness	tweets	Room is so empty
sadness	tweets	@lilmo4ever I'm So Mad I Wont Be There!!!!!!!!! UGHHH!!!
sadness	tweets	Man, my sinuses r really buggin me this morning
sadness	tweets	Had an interesting evening amongst homeless people in Venice Beach last night, wishing I had my camera with me........ and model releases
sadness	tweets	This is California it has to be sunny... But its not ::::: makes me kinda sad
sadness	tweets	oasis or ribena? toughest decision everrr
sadness	tweets	When i say &quot;we close at 6&quot;, it does not mean &quot;come in at 6&quot;. Ffs people. Also RIP Polly
sadness	tweets	@amychiu fuck was that the blink/weezer one? I totally forgot.
sadness	tweets	@sonicsalamander Sorry 'bout the migraine.  Did I mention I really liked your Cissbury (sp?) pic last week?
sadness	tweets	@msdivineknight wish i could  want to stay and play with u guys and enjoy a block party for once
sadness	tweets	@yelyahwilliams alright. i REALLY wish you guys could've done a show in tennessee  because now, i can't go to one of your shows :'(
sadness	tweets	@jovenatheart you never follow me I sad  LOL
sadness	tweets	Shoot. Only 12 miles
sadness	tweets	@siiyu she could have been a lost dog  poor girl
sadness	tweets	@MrSucre lmao i sure did!!! no luck though
sadness	tweets	The girl across the hall says her cat got out when the landlord was showing her apt.  so heartbreaking
sadness	tweets	Feeling bad for my little sister. Put a lot of money into her Saab, took full coverage off it last week, and totalled it yesterday
sadness	tweets	trying to spending time away from the reality....broke my heart again
sadness	tweets	Oh no! Poor bears  i just had a nightmare i wrestled a huge snake and won
sadness	tweets	i want my ben and jerrys now lol, TWEET PEOPLE im bored
sadness	tweets	not feelin 2day
sadness	tweets	Going to an engagement party tommorrow night - it should be mine, but its NOT!  Stepping off the soapbox.
sadness	tweets	@SeviDesigns It'll be delivered next Friday.  That is a looonnnng way away with 5 people! Guess I'll do laundry next week at mil's.
sadness	tweets	@audreyallure - I'm really thinking about staying till tomorrow .. I have to be back in Philly 2nite, but I wanna stay so bad.
sadness	tweets	feeling rather peckish...no dinner for at least 2 hours  wah
sadness	tweets	On my way to lake geneva and I miss my laura
sadness	tweets	@CCNKAddict I know... it just falls right at 1pm my time, like right in the middle of the day
sadness	tweets	@wimnms well i miss her i think she would really like it  re:trina
sadness	tweets	@ChrisEfs i tryed that the other day but they werent giving up what they were using!
sadness	tweets	Nothing like waking up slow in the morning. Docs appt today.
sadness	tweets	It went really well! But the vid didnt work.  im sad
sadness	tweets	missed my friggin hair appt!!!
sadness	tweets	@Quinztar Oh no, but that means that you won't be able to get pwned by my shottie this weekend
sadness	tweets	hillsong tom. night, and dad's birthday! i wish i could see him on his bday though.
sadness	tweets	@meiko911   didn't have time this morning to go all the way across town to take a pic (SO SAD)
sadness	tweets	@marisatangorra it because your handwriting isnt on any of them. and everyone is making fun of me because im sitting by myseld in the lrc
sadness	tweets	. @wickedblueglow he's in bed sick. Heavy fever. Went to dr's. Part of the reason i'm watching Aladdin 2 now and still haven't been fed
sadness	tweets	@tojoha1 sucks that i had to delete it
sadness	tweets	I hate taking lily to the doc to get shots. It makes me super sad
sadness	tweets	@gealbhan_beag     I hate cat pee.
sadness	tweets	@reverieBR That sucks. I hope you find a new job soon
sadness	tweets	WOW, got killed on first wave of Horde on Gears. FAIL
sadness	tweets	just got back from NOM NOM's at our favourite restaurant here in Haarlem. I'm sad, I will miss eating there, the food is INCREDIBLE
sadness	tweets	I worked at a car plant once..nobody believes me though. I repect all the hard workin folks in the world.
sadness	tweets	i have runny nose... i can't breathe.. terrible feeling...
sadness	tweets	@rakka oh no, you're gonna have to break up w/your ups guy when you move
sadness	tweets	Its sooooooooo not funny when I have to move from computer to computer to render and draw. Come on, Revit! AutoCAD was never this bad.
sadness	tweets	My peeps is coming from chi*twn today for the weekend to hang w me and i dont have any time  always workin!
sadness	tweets	Bored and lonely at work
sadness	tweets	The stratus is going bye bye today  i loved that car in high school #fb
sadness	tweets	LA unified summer schools drastically cut due to CA budget  cuts. Very sad
sadness	tweets	@eoghancasey oh no!!    i wish i could lay out in the sun!!  i have no garden...LOL
sadness	tweets	@Orion_Girl OOC sorry we keep missing each other...
sadness	tweets	@GabrieleDurning  sadly we were too late for TraceyCakes, but we got them elsewhere- not the same but still yummy. Tea w wee on wknd!
sadness	tweets	So from this moment foward, imma have to spend my money wisely. No dress and shoe shopping every week. No more pigging out @ my fav rest.
sadness	tweets	@KING617 I REEEALLY wish I could be there  haven't been n a while.what's goin on down there lately?
sadness	tweets	hates everything about seafood..esp smell! just so happened to serve lobster in the chow hall... noooowww, I gotta headache.. ugh! smh...
sadness	tweets	@tanyaahedo - I know! It was drizzling all the way to work!  Hope it warms up this weekend....
sadness	tweets	@danger_skies miss you too :'( it is!i never want to come home.....seriously
sadness	tweets	OK, home made pizza tonight, but horrors, I've run out of anchovies
sadness	tweets	@Pretty23rd I wasn't feeling it
sadness	tweets	@kheiny so the beneath show got cancelled BUMMER! i guess i wont see you til cornerstone  who are you goign with?
sadness	tweets	is off to get the boy and then to his doc. Persistent coughs are not good.  http://plurk.com/p/x285t
sadness	tweets	this evening,picking up n'pop and go for dinner at Ta Lum Tum Tum (som-tum),Major Avenue..decided to go home(not clubing tonite)..
sadness	tweets	@spencerkeasey yeah doesn't that suck!  I am working with a Nano here so i had to take 75% of my music off!  so sad
sadness	tweets	My first car is offically gone.  good bye my turquoise topaz. You will be missed greatly.
sadness	tweets	@LimeIce On the way home dood.. Dont think the crappy vodafone gprs can handle yaymen.com
sadness	tweets	@redsoxgirl28 been there, sadly.  this isn't your first rodeo, my dear, I suspect you've learned your lesson?
sadness	tweets	Bushidokan class got canceled.   I'll just have to sign up for karate someplace else!!
sadness	tweets	@KoFiBaBy wats gooood !! miss yall already
sadness	tweets	this day cant go by any slower
sadness	tweets	about to head to Starbucks. was gonna take the bus to Paradise and Starbucks, but missed it by 2 minutes.
sadness	tweets	@smartie999 That's me on a good day
sadness	tweets	@xombie yeah, NO. I already called to ask.
sadness	tweets	@myersandchang it's not.
sadness	tweets	Hi ho its off to work i go again
sadness	tweets	@DavidArchie I listening Your album on youtube. So awesome. But i can't buy it
sadness	tweets	My poor poor mouth
sadness	tweets	going to work at one sucks, I miss happy hour at sonic
sadness	tweets	@JazzyLadee1908  I try pretty hard to engage everyone I follow! Some of them lack interesting shit to say so they end up unfollowed
sadness	tweets	@jewelinthesky was able to create an iTunes acct but can no longer redeem the Kris Allen album. note said it got canceled
sadness	tweets	Really mad at myself for forgetting about the May 24 deadline for the 40,000 mile award trips to South America on @UnitedAirlines
sadness	tweets	wat a stressful week i jus hope everything falls into place 4me
sadness	tweets	@sallyorourke What do you mean by your portfolio is sad?  No luck here.  I've applied about 30 places so far.
sadness	tweets	piecing a photo quilt for Boeing employees to be hung in Huntington Beach. Sadly, many people in the quilt pics are now laid off.
sadness	tweets	@flashlight Hah! Just wait till you turn 40
sadness	tweets	saying goodbye to @jesshowe for a year  she's been awesome in helping me fit into the team at Veritas!
sadness	tweets	@cheesetal i miss coffee
sadness	tweets	@bowwow614 Hey! Is it going to be viewable in the UK this time?  It broke my heart when I couldn't play the last one  haha.
sadness	tweets	@ESPNCommunityEd Don't forget Nash, how disappointing as a Suns fan
sadness	tweets	i feel some type of way cause im not talkin to anyone...
sadness	tweets	I think I'm gonna try to go vegetarian again....and no soda and majorly cutback on beer...too many carbs....but its so yummyyy
sadness	tweets	@Champion1510 yeah... and neither of them are in huntsville   i would so quit both of my jobs here for one job there.
sadness	tweets	@YSLaurenT me too
sadness	tweets	@theemptynest  I've had that before...sometimes, they turn into other things; felt is very forgiving. Remould? Cut up and re-form?
sadness	tweets	@eeks_ I wish you were here NOWWW!!! grrrrrrr
sadness	tweets	hi guys just doing da usael notmuch really! &lt;3 sad me
sadness	tweets	@julnas But then you might end up like that poor bus driver...  And, this is kinda weird, but I wish I was there today! :o
sadness	tweets	@xbooernsx I am so jealous. I want a free hamburger
sadness	tweets	@sunflower_seeds dude don't say that
sadness	tweets	needs more followers
sadness	tweets	Grr...Fatboy Slim is out of the EDC Lineup.
sadness	tweets	i have a empty house and no ine to share it with
sadness	tweets	@reactiveretro yeah i agree, he was the best! aww why did he leeaave??
sadness	tweets	@Ohmahlanta Esther does not want to deal!
sadness	tweets	In checkout line...kate &amp; jon splashed all over us weekly. sad
sadness	tweets	@lilvanillafrop that's not funny
sadness	tweets	I need some motivation in my life, oh and some love would be nice too
sadness	tweets	bye bye South Beach....u never let me down
sadness	tweets	r @njsharkman  that squeeze bacon looks like poop
sadness	tweets	Well that's the last of the Fabs gone
sadness	tweets	*eekkk* back to work
sadness	tweets	I want to hang out and play!  But I can't.  Fiddle Faddle on my workload!
sadness	tweets	Gosh I miss singer's theater.  I miss learning music, doing acting exercises, n I ESPECIALLY miss being onstage.
sadness	tweets	@SoulAfrodisiac I feel you on that one....I moved recently and now the nearest @wholefoods is an hour away
sadness	tweets	It's gonna suck being the only sober one tonight
sadness	tweets	@theNetImp yeah... it's gonna be a long while for me.
sadness	tweets	HR says ca is taking more tax out of my checks.
sadness	tweets	Feeling bad for @taylorshockley profile pic
sadness	tweets	@itstrizunigs actually, the web works fine. tweetdeck seems to be the culprit  sadness! it's done this at two diff. locations
sadness	tweets	hate working when its sunny,boohoo
sadness	tweets	@shakes1327 Sadly no robot songs in my library.
sadness	tweets	No running for the past couple of days due to bad knee   Still, Guitar Hero Metallica arrived and has kept me amused...Time to ROCK!!!
sadness	tweets	@charlieskies  that is actually a better name than fluffballthegodzilla (my youtube username).  ive been beaten
sadness	tweets	i want so bad to go to the mcfly's concert
sadness	tweets	why nobody write with me ? !
sadness	tweets	#hollyoaks .... The curse of justin strikes again.... Date the burton and end up screwed  poor sod
sadness	tweets	@joshuardean you are on mii shit list...Permanent mii dude
sadness	tweets	Oh no! I used my internal sig for an external e-mail  damn. #fb
sadness	tweets	@Mig177 its what i say why!!!! k4ge last day at the job today  we wont be saying him around anymore
sadness	tweets	I need to stop being sick.
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/670rw - i miss my puppy
sadness	tweets	@SuprnaturlShana but he looks so much better with short hair
sadness	tweets	ah remember the days when you'd sleep in until noon? well guess who did that today? god i feel like a loser
sadness	tweets	@WeeWifie1981 lol, we are staying in, Craig got footy, so Molly and me missing all the good weather, we have no buggy either.
sadness	tweets	got caught in the rain outside. now im cold bbbrrr
sadness	tweets	goodbye picnic for a classmate today  but the weather was fucking beautifuul!!!
sadness	tweets	School Over!!! I'm gonna miss a bunch of people
sadness	tweets	I've got sunburn on my arm  In better news, my new Guitar Hero: Metallica game came and I beyond happy about that.
sadness	tweets	I'm missing everything at work  I want pix of @ipinklemonade !!
sadness	tweets	OMG i just realised while listening to &quot;perfect story&quot; penny liked dr horrible!!! damn you captain hammer!  omg im so sad now!
sadness	tweets	Schools out, but works in
sadness	tweets	Last business day of the month is the wrong time to get new tags. About 45 people
sadness	tweets	@hypernyck if i can get a ticket, but the pickings are lookin slim soo prob not
sadness	tweets	Heading to work - on my Friday off.
sadness	tweets	Is on the couch hungover--don't expect much out of me today
sadness	tweets	@ederyn Just bad day. T_____T Gyah. No car, baby-client is teething and miserable, I forgot to pack a lunch, and I has to get a new car.
sadness	tweets	Flash lost my frisby on a roof. Sad days LOL
sadness	tweets	i'm still here in the office...and the sun is shining
sadness	tweets	oh my gosh!!! hollyoaks was so sad tonite
sadness	tweets	Way to many people were crying at the school picnic and now I have to decide if I want to go back or go to public. I'm confused and sad
sadness	tweets	i bit my tongue sooo bad...it's swollen.
sadness	tweets	@AlexisTai please don't roll your eyes. I can't handle that.  *cries*
sadness	tweets	mcfly anit been on here in ages  z
sadness	tweets	Working during graduation. What a shame.
sadness	tweets	SPGridView is looking prettier, but I'm pretty sure my code is very ugly.
sadness	tweets	is feeling the effects of spring. My sinuses are killing me
sadness	tweets	Soo sad my McMcBuddy thinks I look like I could have a little rainbow  ... I like burritos ok! BURRITOS!!!
sadness	tweets	No one loves me  Brittany forgot my flowers...
sadness	tweets	@austincarlile I'm sad.  I want to go to the sd zoo. say hi to the giraffes and elephants and polar bears for me!
sadness	tweets	really not feelin well...
sadness	tweets	@McDayDreamer some..and some not  only my 2 best friends go to the same school..the others change schools.
sadness	tweets	i think june gloom has arrived
sadness	tweets	some advice for all of you: dont pressure wash your foot. it hurts and is not worth it. you really do want the skin on your foot. FYI. ow
sadness	tweets	Can today go any slower? Time is just dragging by.
sadness	tweets	Urghh, I'm gonna do my project now  don't wanna waste valuable weekend time
sadness	tweets	@CuteRain following 865 and followers 539...not nice
sadness	tweets	@LCPromotions  I doubt it! Boo! You always leave me behind on your awesome roadtrips!
sadness	tweets	So has anyone had that yucky new throwback pepsi and mountain dew yet? If they plan on keeping it around, I will not be drinking it!
sadness	tweets	@Maestro so I wanted to DM you back but I couldn't cuz your not following me  but thankss anyways, maybe ill see ya around in ELLE-AY  ...
sadness	tweets	is sad because his tea and oatmeal are cold
sadness	tweets	Im sad right now becuz of my lady
sadness	tweets	wants to goto lonovala for frenz wedding....bt....no transport arrngmnts wrkg out
sadness	tweets	will be lonely for 4 days because @trizia will be in baguio.   http://plurk.com/p/x2apl
sadness	tweets	@CaroTheNyx aww im sorry im home now hope your ok  i love ya wifey &lt;3 xx
sadness	tweets	Running around town with Kathleen....she's leaving me for a month..
sadness	tweets	its impossible to watch in full ANY flash video with my mac after 5.7
sadness	tweets	@TeelaJBrown i know, i was on the list, but had to miss out b/c of conflicting plans  how did it go?
sadness	tweets	watching the final episode of boys before flowers
sadness	tweets	Hey #socialmediatv ugh no way to do video&gt;blah {pouts}   (Social Media TV live &gt; http://ustre.am/2NjV)
sadness	tweets	is pumped and bummed all at the same time.......
sadness	tweets	Tonight the last night of Jay Leno!!!  am gonna cry like a baby!!
sadness	tweets	@jclayville // i feel your pain. i once lived in an apt for 6 mos where the previous tenant had 4 cats. burning eyes/tight lungs =  gregg
sadness	tweets	@dan87 where have you been, child? i miss you, we haven't msned in days!
sadness	tweets	Sad! Casue everyone is going their seperate ways! Never going to see my friends again!
sadness	tweets	I wish it would rain...but it won't
sadness	tweets	@RetroRewind dave why why why can't this happen when I'm not working and can listen?! :::whining big time:::
sadness	tweets	@unmarketing Fun idea. But, if we saw how clothing would really look on the slouchy, would we buy? Think not.   People R buying the dream.
sadness	tweets	Really sick
sadness	tweets	Hes just not that into you
sadness	tweets	i burned my tongue!  @ workkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk,
sadness	tweets	is soooo hungry right now! Why is it not lunch time!
sadness	tweets	At pool in Orlando got new kicks  going to seaworld tommrow miss my best friend
sadness	tweets	Being bored is always so much more fun with a companion. Missing my bff alreadyyyy!!!!
sadness	tweets	i made an okay rap mix   i couldnt have the stuff i wanted  im getting ready to leave
sadness	tweets	jus skinned my knee. Wat am i 6!?!?! Hurts lyke hell tho. Its always tha little ones that hurt tha most.
sadness	tweets	I am so sad... How come Pooch Hall from The Game has not accepted my friend request on Facebook Yet
sadness	tweets	I woke up an came to the realization that I can put it off as much as I want, but I need 2 drop some friends. Dammit!
sadness	tweets	my life is sad..just had reminder go off on my phone to recharge toothbrush!
sadness	tweets	Now I'm depressed again..ugh!!! HELP!!!
sadness	tweets	@jpaola no money no honey! hehe too soon  sorry
sadness	tweets	@ShaniquaDenise You are sooo lucky. My fiance is away w/the Marine Corps...haven't even seen him yet!
sadness	tweets	not looking forward to driving in this storm.
sadness	tweets	i don't like being sick when the guidance counsellor is supposed to take me + 35 other kids out of school for bowling &amp; pizza
sadness	tweets	@xnicoleex_ yeah sorry i was busy last night  ill try and go next week!
sadness	tweets	shit back home in tallcree (rez)  now i cant see my boyfriend
sadness	tweets	I just cried whilst watching hollyoaks  .. i need a life! lol
sadness	tweets	@itsonlytuesday I would if I wasn't working today.
sadness	tweets	@Skewp420 We can miss our babies together, haha. I'm dreading taking him to the kennel.
sadness	tweets	@melissaha What?! You have to be kidding me - it's an AZ landmark! This kinda news makes me sad
sadness	tweets	@amber_benson It's raining where I am. I wish it wasn't.
sadness	tweets	whew how did i end up going from mugglespace apps to youtube??? haha its just one of those days i guess. i really hate being ill
sadness	tweets	Ready for this saddenning depressing dullful upsetting dreadful weekend.
sadness	tweets	Doing dishes...i miss my kitchen team
sadness	tweets	@Victoryhawk Darn. No bacon
sadness	tweets	waaa the octo drive and i can't go for it
sadness	tweets	ah shit ... my chest hurts now
sadness	tweets	RAIN why must you come &quot;after&quot; I flat iron my hair? I have been rockin my curls for 3 weeks and today you decide to come out. not nice!
sadness	tweets	ii wanna go home for thee weekend  but ii have no gas. sukks (_!_)!!
sadness	tweets	Cancelling my JavaOne  http://ff.im/3nzTH
sadness	tweets	Spring cleaning for http://milliontreesnyc.org tomorrow. But the park I want to go clean is not accessible by public transportation.
sadness	tweets	says misses my cousins so badly!!!  http://plurk.com/p/x2bha
sadness	tweets	@RobertsEmma You don't reply to none of your fans ... I don't know what trust
sadness	tweets	@sandyvanessa89 awwh im sorry  it won't be much longer
sadness	tweets	so fuckin tired. didn't get home till 5:30. work at bjs at 12:15
sadness	tweets	@memphianmallory Too traumatic to even discuss and none of yall are here!!! Everyone has left for the weekend.
sadness	tweets	im sooo sore... my back hurts, my legs are weak, and im dehydrated. i have to go set up my moms furniture... gay!!!!
sadness	tweets	Rose City Sirens were uber cool last night!  Wish I could have stayed longer
sadness	tweets	stood on my curlers and burnt myself  then burnt my hand when i picked them up..
sadness	tweets	Is wondering what happened to the sun? Damn May grey!
sadness	tweets	Im feeling so nostalgic. Im sad. But happy. I don't now how to feel. It's over, but not at the same time. It just feels over.  i love you.
sadness	tweets	fuming over ebay purchase gone bad. outta $45 and have nothing to show for it  %$&amp;!
sadness	tweets	@eddievedder no such luck and u aren't coming to Detroit  Luckily, I'll be seeing u and the crew in Chicago
sadness	tweets	is doing nothing  lol
sadness	tweets	@jovialhoney Can you guys adopt me? Yall are always doing fun stuff. Y'all take trips to Miami... we go to Arkansas
sadness	tweets	I wish the sun would shine. but it won't
sadness	tweets	@chrishornby Very. I'm ill and attempting to remember lots, and nothing is going in.
sadness	tweets	Cried my eyes out watching My Girl last period   hahah
sadness	tweets	@KINGDINGALING_1  @wendi916 is leavin bc of racists *starts cryin*
sadness	tweets	i'm hungry but can't eat anything right now because my tongue hurts so bad.
sadness	tweets	Hey guys I'm back from work.. It was kinda horrible
sadness	tweets	aww my friend just called and said that she got a better job so she won't be working with me anymore
sadness	tweets	Leaving SF soon. I just might cry.
sadness	tweets	I need a restful weekend, but I will have to work instead
sadness	tweets	@mraeannon thank u!! I know I'll miss u too  Ill take pics as soon as I get there I need your email txt it to me or something
sadness	tweets	@petewentz im so jealous. i want an octo drive
sadness	tweets	@rizzzky he's retiring from the tonight show  im so bummed. he was awesome ha. AND CONGRATS MY DEAR
sadness	tweets	@hereprettykitty You mustv'e read my mind. I WAS going, but now it's thunderstorming AND I have to pick up the boys from the bus stop
sadness	tweets	@ptwaugh xbox broke  hope you enjoy playing 1 vs. 100. I was...looking forward to that.
sadness	tweets	@stargirlreads i cantttt.  my grandparents are here.
sadness	tweets	ok so everyone is out an im stuck in bored and ill
sadness	tweets	the downside of getting TDL 3 days early is that i won't have time to read it til next week anyway!  but still, hurrah *clutches it close*
sadness	tweets	@HMXCasey I sorry
sadness	tweets	@katschio  I was completely enraptured by your fascinating updates on your testing! What will I do now?! Oh, wait--Yeah. Work. Of course.
sadness	tweets	I miss @BillieSyadrie I'm sorry for being able to call you when u already sleep  I love you,Have a great trip tomorrow! Send my ? to them!
sadness	tweets	In school ; With Victoria &amp; Bryan (: _ no more school soon, sadd i am
sadness	tweets	Got a right bad headache
sadness	tweets	@lizridley no, i do better with people i don't know  @autumnrose8683 you're going to chiodos tonight, right? just kill something for me.
sadness	tweets	Oh why does one of my monitors have to act up when I have a deadline?  Oh I'm an unhappy camper.
sadness	tweets	Just got home from work.. My feet are killing me
sadness	tweets	in less then a min i lost 2 followers
sadness	tweets	@reemerband Hiyaa! How was Tour? Really disappointed that I couldn't make it   Hope your all Dandy ;) xxxxxxxx
sadness	tweets	@KatieKilljoy I wanna play with you tonight  *pout, pout side face*
sadness	tweets	Nothing like getting to work and finding out you have to cover extra shifts this week... looks like another 40 hr work week.
sadness	tweets	doesn't wanna get dressed up and be an adult today.
sadness	tweets	@giordanobc I know how you feel.  Takes far too much time out of my life!
sadness	tweets	Not to thrilled about the marathon this sunday, they assigned me on the street. Less $$$
sadness	tweets	want my new lappytop now, but the site says it won't be here till 6/9
sadness	tweets	@BusyElleBee That ur anti is what I understood from the message. Sorry left off ur don't vote BNP msg at end due 2 space
sadness	tweets	getting ready to drop off something to my man so he can hang out with a friend instead of me
sadness	tweets	so glad it is friday  two classes, then lazy afternoon. too bad it isnt nice and warm out today
sadness	tweets	I should be in NYC right now with some of my favorite people but instead I am stuck in RI.
sadness	tweets	@Klzm31sT me too.
sadness	tweets	trying to find some friends and not having any luck
sadness	tweets	@hatcherdogg Would love it but have plans
sadness	tweets	Hmmm, I just realized....I didn't have any bday cake for my birthday...boo hoo!
sadness	tweets	@grossnoises i miss yoooouuuu!!!!
sadness	tweets	an ultimatum is an ultimatum no matter how you dress it up.  and that sucks.
sadness	tweets	Got 2 get ready 4 work  would rather be fishing!
sadness	tweets	No No No @ankita_gaba will take @Shadez away  Not my day! #shadez #twpp
sadness	tweets	Work is MAD blocking sites! No fun  but they aren't blocking facebook, twitter &amp; youtube
sadness	tweets	@RobPattzNews DIE!  gosh.... i will die 'til movie awards
sadness	tweets	wants to go out and enjoy the weather but is tired and stuck in bed
sadness	tweets	i want to see the next gossip girl episode!
sadness	tweets	The Killers are coming to TD Banknorth in Boston on 9/4 at 7:30pm. And, I can't go.   Everyone else should go though! Tickets on sale Sat.
sadness	tweets	@anachronous I miss you
sadness	tweets	Boring day today. Broke so I can't go and see my friend's band tonight  Maybe The Q tomorrow though.
sadness	tweets	he switches off his cellphone!! huaaaaa, i cant sleep  buzz me bebe..
sadness	tweets	wow i just woke up and read drews blog .. oh man im seriously crying right now
sadness	tweets	disappointed! I forgot to tweet something really inappropriate @graphicphantom yelled in whole foods yesterday &amp; now I can't remember it.
sadness	tweets	All my loved ones are leaving on Sunday..... sad
sadness	tweets	@Agent_M that just gave me that sick-to-my-stomach feeling  ppl like that don't belong in regular society, ever!
sadness	tweets	uploading PCD onto my iTunes xD i used to have it but certian events caused me to lt sadly
sadness	tweets	the dog dug a hole in the backyard well iwas sleeping, now im grounded
sadness	tweets	my followers went from 22 to 20  i'd follow you back but i cant do anything till i get interwebnet! I want more followers. Im interesting!
sadness	tweets	Another Qi about to start....I'll be missing the next 4
sadness	tweets	Bout to get ready for work ugh i hate workin on fridays
sadness	tweets	Jenn jenn jenn oh why oh why won't u pass on ur iTunes knowledge onto me?
sadness	tweets	At Spring Awakening...cannot wait for it to start. Last time I'm here ever! Boo, sad times
sadness	tweets	@citygirllife I'm so ready for the weekend. Did you see all the flash flood warnings for around here?
sadness	tweets	Friday is not treating me well so far.
sadness	tweets	in accounting class ; then detention after
sadness	tweets	Sorting out Twitter issues....very frustrated that you can't talk to someone and they respond slowly to issues - capacity the challenges
sadness	tweets	Oh my god...my favorite havaianas just broke after three years or service  they will be missed. and they were molded perfectly to my feet
sadness	tweets	fell on the sidewalk in harvard square.  stupid cobblestones!  now my hand hurts
sadness	tweets	As Simon/Idol might say, 21life sentences not good enough for Chester Stiles. How can one rape a 2 year old child?!  How the F?  Why?
sadness	tweets	@dawl83 how you get a day off and you still aint hit me.. Where is the lOVE?
sadness	tweets	Just dusted &amp; vacuumed apartment.  I think I need another new vacuum...my entire apartment is smoky.  I just bought this one from Kmart
sadness	tweets	Man work is so busy today  2people called in sick and the old perverts keep rolling in  sadness abounds...
sadness	tweets	@kattekrab No tango icons in this revision.
sadness	tweets	last day at the Ko Olina.  off to north shoreee(:
sadness	tweets	@lauriedriscoll did you finish twilight? i did! and i wish it wasnt over
sadness	tweets	follow friday: following more people then followers  follow me? woot #followfriday
sadness	tweets	Long day at office again. Tiring week
sadness	tweets	damn, I paid like $16 my first Slightly Stoopid show and now they charge $47 a pop   makes me sad...
sadness	tweets	@mrkris really?  dang.. I missed it   *sigh*
sadness	tweets	needs somewhere to go...its still lush out + i want to be back out in it
sadness	tweets	going to miss springwatch tonight  going to have to make do with my own garden!
sadness	tweets	@eraticschematic I'm pretty bored with it too
sadness	tweets	has just received a phone call for new patients...i guess that means work for tomorrow!
sadness	tweets	Tried to do an Audioboo recording but it' distorted due to the high volume  #OBS
sadness	tweets	@wyatthaplo I can haz beer too? Oh wait... I'm a work...
sadness	tweets	@shaaqT @primaveron to mast ladki patata hai chal jiske sath bhi jaye khush rehna...will miss u my love...  #twpp
sadness	tweets	is updating an old ipod...sad...i miss my orange nano
sadness	tweets	@lululemon thanks.  Sadly the streamline top II is sold out. Streamline trunk II is available in my size but that only gets me halfway.
sadness	tweets	lost my DC hat ..
sadness	tweets	Have I ever told you I absolutly hate writing emails, status pdates are fine but emails have so much...finality...to them
sadness	tweets	@Saniyyah &quot;My House&quot;...I like that club! I wnt there whn I was in LA!! U know I'm not going! That's on Tuesday..I can't
sadness	tweets	I'm pissed, someone took my wallet
sadness	tweets	@melii That's true.  It still sucks though 'cause I was all &quot;LOLOL I AM SO ORIGINAL--ohshit&quot; so. But yeah. Thanks!
sadness	tweets	I really miss Sebastian
sadness	tweets	@sianhughes_ oh god i just watched it to!! did claire escape? AGAIN!!! it was really quite sad
sadness	tweets	@xomorganjane aw, sad  I was looking forward to seeing you!
sadness	tweets	10 more minutes and i never have this class again. Its kinda sad cause this class is so fun
sadness	tweets	listening to @joeymcintyrye's Without Your Love...hes so tortured in that song...makes me sad
sadness	tweets	@tahitianmom that truely is sad news to hear  we are all created equal, so sad to know our neighbors are such prejudice people
sadness	tweets	@CrypticIrnAngel thats a bummer i haven't got one yet :/ been waiting over a year  grrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
sadness	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx but Today mtv does not allow us to vote
sadness	tweets	Wish I didn't have to work today.
sadness	tweets	Its rained ever day in Miami since I've been here.....
sadness	tweets	i wish i were hanging out with kobe right now
sadness	tweets	Guess I'm gonna try the nap thing again 2day, but since my kids haven't cooperated with it yet this week I'm sure 2day won't be different
sadness	tweets	i neeeeeeeed music suggestions but no one will give them
sadness	tweets	Just lost respect to someone.
sadness	tweets	Sims 3 wouldn't work on my old macbook  hope to get Sims 2 by tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	@nikkilynnsd aw i wish i could.  i have to get ready for atlanta and i have to come into work since I am behind on work
sadness	tweets	MIT bookstore has best book selection, but it's the one bookstore I have no coupons or discounts for
sadness	tweets	about to start getting ready for work.  took lexi out to the park earlier! wish i could lay around ALL day.
sadness	tweets	@lyricals don't care about my struggles..
sadness	tweets	i miss my boo  on another note im soready for this game to come on tonight...fox grill anyone???!!
sadness	tweets	@sunilsebastian I still have a lot of time on my stupid contract...  18 months before I can change providers
sadness	tweets	at least 3 more days
sadness	tweets	TGIF!!! But also sad that this is last day I get to work with my favorite TV reporter
sadness	tweets	@YasmineGalenorn depressed that both of those are already out but yours isnt. I want your book!!
sadness	tweets	@simplysinister that sucks  I seriously hope you feel better soon, you need to come over next week!!!
sadness	tweets	@kyle_newman i just called and it's sold out.  bummer. next time!
sadness	tweets	Im wishing that i had the weekend off so i can go to SOL.
sadness	tweets	@thriftymommy well my daughter is 20 now...thats why I said 'I miss those days'...they go by sooo fast
sadness	tweets	spending most of the weekend working.. that doesn't even sound fun
sadness	tweets	@BiffBarker Ohhhhh how I miss the Brunch
sadness	tweets	Oops, forgot we are having a barbecue at work today! I didn't need to pack a lunch after all
sadness	tweets	I am so jelz. I want a house. &gt;
sadness	tweets	and wtf at little 9 year old wanna be thugs? ugh why can't everyone just be friends and not in cliques like back in the old days
sadness	tweets	this is a horrible day.
sadness	tweets	@BeateVeronica I'm jealous - I would love deer steak. One of the downsides of having an almost vegetarian and a carnivore living together
sadness	tweets	Checking out zensify on my iphone. works fine but no landscape typing
sadness	tweets	Stupid net  we think mum broke it. Again.
sadness	tweets	No shoes for me.
sadness	tweets	is up at the hub for day parade again (of course) and they just cancelled the castle show mid-show
sadness	tweets	installed the new modem which is meant to run 5 times faster than the old one and its slower  what the hell? gah slow internet kills me
sadness	tweets	No pool today.   Stupid weather.
sadness	tweets	Roscoe - Smooth Sailin' WHY DID NO ONE TELL ME ABOUT THIS SONG?????? RAP FRIENDS U HAVE FAILED ME
sadness	tweets	@MAMAHINAi was on the list, i paid 5 to get in, but if your under 21,you cant go in and out, but it was gettin so hot, so we went outside
sadness	tweets	Wow, my bed is SO comfy &amp; my nap has been much too short. Getting up for work = do not want.
sadness	tweets	I have not recieved any mail in over a month  life is boring
sadness	tweets	Where's my Happiness?
sadness	tweets	Was a little slow to try this one, but Ben &amp; Jerry's Mission to Marzipan is a bit of a letdown.
sadness	tweets	Not feeling well. Food poisoning.......
sadness	tweets	Powerdvd doesn't want to play my Pushing Daisies dvd. I only want screenies to make icons with! Copy protection gone bonkers?
sadness	tweets	at home sick
sadness	tweets	I miss you
sadness	tweets	Now @mumbly_joe is trying to guilt me into coming to Alumni Weekend. I don't think I can make that either this year. I suck a lot.
sadness	tweets	SICK again
sadness	tweets	I'm so sleep deprived but it's to hot to sleep.
sadness	tweets	http://bit.ly/253ce  :: I got bit in the face by a doberman when I was four years old, I just wanted a kiss   My neighbor had about 13 ...
sadness	tweets	on my way to my dad's with my sistas..  r.i.p. Deb..
sadness	tweets	@Exprincess http://twitpic.com/67318 - *sniff* i feel so left out!   *grin*
sadness	tweets	At home sick.. On a friday...studying is all im doing at this point.. My weekend is so ruined
sadness	tweets	Had to eat my sandwhich since guys were in a meeting. No sushi to brag about.
sadness	tweets	Facebook Farm town become slower and slower
sadness	tweets	Not good news  Time for an incredibly hard decision.
sadness	tweets	Today more sore than surgery day. Glad I took extra sick day.  Full recovery expected after 6 weeks.  Calling lawn service firms today
sadness	tweets	I did the dishes and I'm now on a train to Newcastle. Have to leave #nontweetinggirlfriend behind for 2 weeks, which is always a bit sad
sadness	tweets	wants to go out tonight but cant get home
sadness	tweets	@Dayna_aka_Rowan he could be talking to me  (he's probably not though ;) )
sadness	tweets	@grahamcoltonfan hahah me too!! Except for when Haley gets hit by a car  but yay Leyton!
sadness	tweets	It's Going To Be A Busy Day  And That Sucks Cause I Wanted To Spend Time With Someone Earlier Today
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/674p1 - @JTHawthorne this is my Ohio is for lovers tattoo got the design off the shirt.. haha but I lost the shirt
sadness	tweets	is sadly sitting at home when she could be going to a partyyyyy
sadness	tweets	@grrachel  that made me sad..
sadness	tweets	I need hugs from Joe Jonas
sadness	tweets	@Elleipein aww honey I'm sorry
sadness	tweets	@ClintonSparks I told u I tried but 88 said it was 2 late  cause the girl I was with took 4ever 2 get ready. they wanted to meet up by 11.
sadness	tweets	hates the sound of silence..doesnt like being shut out..
sadness	tweets	Got up early did a shit ton now im headed to cherokee park to run  and walk !
sadness	tweets	My arms are making me want to cry... and also because those shots made me sick
sadness	tweets	@ jimithy1: can't come  msbj&lt;3
sadness	tweets	@thatchmaster i miss that place, but miss wegmans even more. whole foods != wegmans
sadness	tweets	not really in the twitter mood today... i don't know what to do
sadness	tweets	@Knownhuman damn - that's sad, then... I haven't heard the new one yet. Sounds like I've been spared a tragedy.
sadness	tweets	i wanna see 'up' tonight, but no one will go with me. whhhyyy
sadness	tweets	Evaluating my people...Dont like this part of the job
sadness	tweets	does anyone know where I can watch the prison break tv movie? It's not on itunes
sadness	tweets	@BonesCrazy24 I've had the week off too...but I have Biology  exams to revise for so my Bones time is limited
sadness	tweets	Edge left me off the contributors list in this month's issue.  x FFS. &lt;- Werd
sadness	tweets	In denial about the moving van parked a few blocks away.
sadness	tweets	Last day in maui
sadness	tweets	@tapulous where's the UK love?!
sadness	tweets	@1jaredPADALECKI 5 seasons that's it? Sorry just noticed in ur previous update. My sis isn't gonna be happy
sadness	tweets	oh how I miss my truck... I could have my whole place moved by now...
sadness	tweets	is in mourning that he is having to miss the homesssssskooooler fair today!!!
sadness	tweets	Laundry time and LOTS of it!
sadness	tweets	@princeofcode Sorry we couldn't get the project working with the windoze laptop  but a ton of folks came up afterwards and saw it running
sadness	tweets	Still white despite being out for ages in the sun
sadness	tweets	I feel like I'm going to toss my cookies
sadness	tweets	Off to Nanaimo 2day... missing my son already and i havent even left yet
sadness	tweets	Bad day at the office. In a horrendous mood  Was it national 'Act like an idiotic buffoon' day today and no-one bothered to tell me?!!
sadness	tweets	SHIT I lost my Star Trek ring!    Starfleet Academy class ring w/ Golden Gate Bridge on it.  Got it as high school graduation present.
sadness	tweets	@tessonfire I feel almost empty inside today.  Not a good feeling.
sadness	tweets	@Valholla that's sad  what kind of mess are you getting into this weekend?
sadness	tweets	@GeneralTekno I won't be getting any ROTF toys 'till MUCH later.  Tell me if anybody isn't/is worth getting.
sadness	tweets	Friday night is never as fun as it should be when you have work on Saturday morning
sadness	tweets	@dfizzy you're so lucky. we have 6 weeks until summer
sadness	tweets	Im sad...there's a for sale sign in front of my house!!
sadness	tweets	A little 3 mile run done!  22.5 minutes...  I'm exhausted!  Not impressed with the HRM...
sadness	tweets	i feel so bad when the kid is sick
sadness	tweets	melissa_leah: my car wont start.......
sadness	tweets	@cacaubrazil that's not great  guy related??
sadness	tweets	@danisometimes  sadness. you could hang out with me and feel less apathetic.
sadness	tweets	Mean people suck.
sadness	tweets	we need to have a haters ball today like on dave chappelle,,,,, man I miss those days on comedy central the new episodes
sadness	tweets	@japanimated I miss you too
sadness	tweets	@Spacerbunny oh that sucks!!!  Thank God for your laptop!!
sadness	tweets	@MikeyUnderwood so no rice or crusty bread with the chili .... aawww
sadness	tweets	@Totally_Toni   i'm having one of those days today also
sadness	tweets	slept with my eye open again- hurts like hell... wish I could find the eye lube stuff to make it feel better....
sadness	tweets	I'm suppose to get up to go find sumthin to wear tomorrow but I can't get up
sadness	tweets	u ever have a friend that u just wonder why are we friends? i know what you get from me but i'm questioning what i'm getting from u.
sadness	tweets	@qdakid Q, i dont get love anymore  ?
sadness	tweets	@Cherryadestains It was blatently your fault for just shoving it in the bag when I said no  I felt that you had very much tricked me. xx
sadness	tweets	@MelissaPan awe yeah, it's more fun revising with others but you get distracted easier &gt;.&lt; yeah I'm tired, revising history
sadness	tweets	Ugh, I don't know if U even care about Nicole Richie, but I do and C that I missed her on TV last nite despite the twitter  @JennOrtigoza
sadness	tweets	George is sad because he can't go for a car ride with his dad  http://apps.facebook.com/dogbook/profile/view/6877274
sadness	tweets	sick  and HAPPY 13th Amanda
sadness	tweets	@tatrtalk I wanted to, but I sadly work today.  Normally, I don't work Fridays, either.
sadness	tweets	Willie is pouting because Grandma didn't put any treats on my food  http://apps.facebook.com/dogbook/profile/view/6877293
sadness	tweets	So tired n sick-what the fuck is wrong w me
sadness	tweets	is really sad about her nephew  but keeping busy sorting out items for BWM! http://bit.ly/N9tsM
sadness	tweets	@MajorSpoilers majorspoilers.com has problems - cannot get the site working
sadness	tweets	@pollybowles don't say that - I really miss my red Porsche (sold it 2 yrs ago)
sadness	tweets	just played like, 5 games of dota hahaha. I wanna go home
sadness	tweets	On my way to get the crate and Bella Dolce!!!! Sad cuz @livingdeaderin is going tto Richmond
sadness	tweets	@PrinceTerrence TERRY TERRY TERRY!! i miss you
sadness	tweets	@lancearmstrong any chance of seeing you at a race in germany? unfortunately hardly any tv &amp; news coverage of cycling here anymore!
sadness	tweets	@mtupyro - don't feel bad. I got a foad for a promotion here too.
sadness	tweets	Is at the botanical gardens and its beautiful but she forgot an extra memory card so no pictures today
sadness	tweets	moving offices  I'm going to miss you Hollywood.
sadness	tweets	2 days without sleep and now a migraine. I thought life postR01 was meant to be relaxing
sadness	tweets	Please help me get this song out of my head
sadness	tweets	Im in science!! very boring
sadness	tweets	@deevazquez Lol. She's offering me a case of guiness!  can you one up her? If you buy me two I'll stay. Let's start the bidding wars
sadness	tweets	watched prison break special, such a sad ending
sadness	tweets	Aww @danbharris is getting married, congrats to him and his new wife! Now I miss the WN Weekend people
sadness	tweets	Spent the last hour signing yearbooks. I'll miss you guys!
sadness	tweets	@danielbachhuber if so, the TMobile G1 is the Hummer H1. I wish I had the battery life of an iPhone!
sadness	tweets	Oh no... The sun's gone!
sadness	tweets	@NateBodnar are you going with jordan? he told me to come but im stuck at work
sadness	tweets	@nippysweety Thanks very much for the #ff @nippysweety ! My only one today
sadness	tweets	@revfry his fam would disown us if we weren't there!   Both of us really wanted to come to the bbq  but got our weekends mixed up -
sadness	tweets	@Pristina I hide my berry like a slave REGULARLY only today I was caught by massa   &amp; im def not light enough to be a juice pouring slave
sadness	tweets	i'm out of books to read, movies to watch n stuff to buy...i'm bored!
sadness	tweets	Sad to say bye bye to these beautiful mountains.  http://twitpic.com/675ks
sadness	tweets	I missed @tapulous giving away a TTC code
sadness	tweets	#twpp and no one told me?
sadness	tweets	Why don't you make me feel like you used to
sadness	tweets	@AttyBowen me and Arlando are totally done. I havn'e talked to him in a LONG time!Now I just have to find a 'worth while' man...
sadness	tweets	I Wish i was still in Cornwall - i miss my auntie's dogs
sadness	tweets	@hitekfame my bad... I am always running...
sadness	tweets	Ok, WTF?! Why do you have something on your menu *in the window* if you don't sell it?! I wanted my bubble tea
sadness	tweets	@majayy what about me  I miss you too!
sadness	tweets	@lisibo ooohhhhh - sorry  So sad - never noticed the dollar signs! #oxteach
sadness	tweets	Ugly betty was sooooooo sad!!!
sadness	tweets	Only have 80  followers... So sad.
sadness	tweets	Senior video in mustang update. I'm gonna cry
sadness	tweets	I have to wait until I get home to watch the New Moon trailer clip. Stupid work Internet access restrictions
sadness	tweets	Its so cold! I wish @shelby_says or @tattoos1985 were here to cuddle with me
sadness	tweets	Back at home and phone my grandma... I love her and miss her
sadness	tweets	@Ilovefal b/c &quot;we&quot; ONLY have Baby Phat, Phat Farm, Applebottoms &amp; FUBU!! And they come up pretty WEAK!! Double
sadness	tweets	There is no good place to grab a quick healthy lunch in downtown Golden. Looks like it may be Safeway
sadness	tweets	Wow. Way to be discouraged  idk anymore... fml.
sadness	tweets	@PvtMarcus I always choose to be a good guy, even if I know its only a game, i feel a bit bad doing evil things
sadness	tweets	dam i missed hollyoaks 2nite!
sadness	tweets	Bitter sweet moment... Want to leave but have nothing to go home to...
sadness	tweets	I definitely missed listening to The Spill Canvas, I miss seeing them live as well  &quot;Now I'm in stitches ooooover you and oooover you, oh&quot;
sadness	tweets	feel crappy today
sadness	tweets	sad day, redskins release Jansen   Best wishes to him. http://twurl.nl/ueivwi
sadness	tweets	prom tonight.. too bad im not going to be there
sadness	tweets	Bad day!  Work's TOO stressful...been involved in a minor accident, but everything's ok so far. Have to cut down immediately!
sadness	tweets	Ok grey/cold day in LA, listening to PJ Harvey, Jenny Lewis, Cat Power..I see a pattern here.
sadness	tweets	not sure where the real state market is moving  confused either hold or go ahead with the plans?
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/675tw - Square B - she is sad because she wasn't there and now she's, well, square  (crocheted bee with poly fibe ...
sadness	tweets	ps it's rainging
sadness	tweets	@innonate @juliaxgulia Can't figure out how to reply on Tumblr sorry! I don't get into NYC until 6/4 so I can't go to any events b4 then
sadness	tweets	Not a happy camper  not having a good day at all...
sadness	tweets	@Fearnecotton I'm gonna miss the show  at whitby for the weekend! btw i love your show! Radio 1 is always on! ly x
sadness	tweets	running errands with geeta... feeling like i have the plague
sadness	tweets	Want to hang out with beth and tenaya and their hubbys tonight....but jon wants to hang out with some other people
sadness	tweets	Ha I got another #followfriday. take that @mage! oh... your listed too... thanks a lot @Lowjacker ya jerk.
sadness	tweets	i didnt get a hug today
sadness	tweets	Tonight is my last night in my apartment...
sadness	tweets	My cat died of kidney failure during my math test  This day needs to get better.
sadness	tweets	@TheHebrican can we trade weather? it's all gloomy today in la.
sadness	tweets	I feel actual heartbreak.. @Levanah_Gates last night  x
sadness	tweets	@amandadiva I've had to do laundry for the last two days
sadness	tweets	*sigh* Last day at work. I has an sadifying in my heartparts.
sadness	tweets	I missed the math trade
sadness	tweets	wishing i could go out of town this weekend
sadness	tweets	@NG01 you got it. poor thing not gonna have a choice for much longer though
sadness	tweets	@Zaidah1 i can't listen to music at work  I probably could try, but then i'll have to start hunting for a new job on monday
sadness	tweets	@ChrisSligh I am saddened to see you felt the need to comment about Clay. I know you don't care, but you lost one follower today.
sadness	tweets	i have the adam lambert version of FEELIN GOOD in my head... i miss idol already.
sadness	tweets	promised myself not to eat crisps but im starving and theres nothing else quick to eat
sadness	tweets	ok, I want to quit my job.....
sadness	tweets	@Suai awww me sorry.. its been so long.. u left me
sadness	tweets	My paycheck was nothing but a piece of paper.
sadness	tweets	@tahninial nothing, they make it up, last time i checked a jar of curry sauce there was no pepper inside, i was disappointed
sadness	tweets	Not eating funnel cake at Mag Fest is what I am doing
sadness	tweets	Wish I was going back to the lake for the weekend...had a blast...miss my lil bro
sadness	tweets	@laydieluck777 damn  real sorry to hear that ma
sadness	tweets	@meganduffy aww I miss u too! Haven't ate
sadness	tweets	@aliasgirl18 Exactly!  He wouldn't say it if they'd hinted it to him. I will seriously die with him if it's true.
sadness	tweets	@Katrinasummer Dude, I hear ya. I'll be 26 two weeks from tomorrow. I feel old.
sadness	tweets	R is going to be mad :/ Science of Sleep is missing and it's due back! I didn't even get to watch it!
sadness	tweets	Mexico City traffic  Beating the rush hour to make it to the Aeropuerto
sadness	tweets	@binary42 I'm sorry you won't make it.
sadness	tweets	has has an ok day with jo. She bit me and now its bruised.
sadness	tweets	@birdsandbones meeee too. i am listening to sad music and missing you.  ps - http://www.daytrotter.com/
sadness	tweets	@jennjolie yep... or it should b automatic that if u fall 4 someone that person does 2!or smthng like that... but the way it is SUCKS!
sadness	tweets	@sirhova its been clownin since it got flooded in htown in april. Got it repaired or so I thought.
sadness	tweets	I feel sorry for male singers.  they are never gonna be as great Zac Hanson! Pooorr fellas
sadness	tweets	@sarahfenn I prefer overcast days too. Sorry it's hot where you are.
sadness	tweets	ayy fml. nothing is perfect
sadness	tweets	@BabyStowz yea, feel like im bein ignored
sadness	tweets	about to start work and missing him like crazy.I wont be seeing him till Tuesday
sadness	tweets	@kurttheobald No problem. Unfortunately, I think it was just something I had to sort out on my own.
sadness	tweets	I know I shouldn't be saying this but fuck it..I'm horny as hell  http://twurl.nl/8q6cjc
sadness	tweets	home, don't feel like going to work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@mileycyrus AHHHH!!!! Voting is closed for your categories!!!  I would have voted for you in them though!  I tried.
sadness	tweets	Had some fun in the sun,, Im not seeing my tan yet though      I want chocolate!
sadness	tweets	@Rckstar53 Why I gotta be all that?... I sad now
sadness	tweets	wish i didnt have to go to work tonight
sadness	tweets	Still not feeling well
sadness	tweets	Biggest food fight/mosh pit ever and i miss it from across the school
sadness	tweets	Fire call today missed it
sadness	tweets	was gonna go to my brothers show but still feeling like poo :**(
sadness	tweets	Is anyone else having a bad Friday? Is not a fun day today.
sadness	tweets	Is on 'msn', but nones on! :@  :'(
sadness	tweets	Best day at work, best weekend ahead. Hopefully I will have someone to go to USC with...
sadness	tweets	at the risk of sounding like a whiny child, I gotta say...I WANNA GO HOOOOOOOOOOOOMEEEEE!!! Ugh.
sadness	tweets	Prodigiy and The Crystal Method tomorrow for USC Birthday party and I have to work  first time I miss the Crystal Method. SAD!
sadness	tweets	@backstreetboys http://twitpic.com/3x3wq - impossible to know them closely
sadness	tweets	@jordanhowell nah just iplayer listening back to it, its not working
sadness	tweets	I just lost my favorite pen  good thing I have a back up =D
sadness	tweets	@AbbyRo good good same sched for me too sadly
sadness	tweets	@stephenjerzak awww i didnt pass my speech
sadness	tweets	Bye bye edinburgh  i don't want to leave
sadness	tweets	Kinda pissed really wanted to go see Drag me to Hell with Christina and Garrit, but I have to work till 2am  I'm go... http://znl.me/OSWGH
sadness	tweets	@tommcfly helllllloooooooooooo tom, gig tonight? sorry im not sure when your shows are over there! miss you in the UK  HI HI HI HI HI xx
sadness	tweets	what the fuck...ahaha i hate my life sometimes. why reply on only bad things  ..even if it wasn't bad and i was kidding but whatever! fml
sadness	tweets	@Freebies4Mom will they have your video available online?  I have been gone all morning and missed it   after waiting so long 4 it
sadness	tweets	is not running in the Annapolis half marathon this weekend because i failed to meet the registeration deadline &amp; its completely filled
sadness	tweets	@loryanyumul i miss you  when are you gonna be down in irvine again?? liz and i were just reminiscing about all our adventures.
sadness	tweets	The most painful sound in the world to me is the crying of someone I love. What's worse is I can't even hold them and say I'm sorry
sadness	tweets	gonna do laundry....never did laundry @ a hotel before.....I miss you R.....even though you ignore me and don even check on me....
sadness	tweets	@Kathleen_Bee same here : /   Coincidently, my friend just cancelled our movie date
sadness	tweets	just woke up...dont want to go into work at 4
sadness	tweets	Done with geology!! But I'm really missing my favorite sisters! Especially because they can't go to banquet tonight
sadness	tweets	I'm so depressed right now. IDK...
sadness	tweets	holy wow, I think I could've slept all day! Soooo tired.
sadness	tweets	@MovieTFan: Well that is just completely lame. I'm sorry dude.
sadness	tweets	@ohcherub  Yeah I know what you mwan.
sadness	tweets	Senior's last day.
sadness	tweets	pics arent working for me here on twitter
sadness	tweets	is sad coz hyd theka's dont have beer
sadness	tweets	I'm so down again.  I wish I could share my problems with someone...
sadness	tweets	What do u see in her that i dont have  @Shadez
sadness	tweets	Where is the sun!!
sadness	tweets	Arghh, just found out @ianknaan is going to be here at Rock the Bells and I can't go
sadness	tweets	Fb I hate when I try &amp; support my local bookstore &amp; they never have what I need
sadness	tweets	have yet to start this paper due tonight. i have no motivation
sadness	tweets	It figures. It starts raining as I am freed from work
sadness	tweets	@supergirlnancy sorry  All the codes I have are posted on our site
sadness	tweets	@ekardmatt well you MY man, you and your truck are 900 too many miles away!!
sadness	tweets	Just found out that Mad Men season 3 is delayed until August.
sadness	tweets	@jonjordan w00t! Glad to hear it! Though I am missing watching it outside the Igloo by a day
sadness	tweets	why i still lose followers?  the people hates me, THE WORLD hates me or maybe ... Read More: http://is.gd/Jg3I
sadness	tweets	I hate not bringing my ipod to school
fear	tweets	@tlockemy I do too, but not heavy rain, which we've had 4 more than a wk.
sadness	tweets	@jaycool2k I do want to go for Peaches... but also Miss Kittin, pendulum, chase&amp;status and the bloody beetroots! its not fair
fear	tweets	Almost to grandmas now. No internet there. I will never catch up on twitter.
fear	tweets	@EeepersChoice I'd rather she not, if she's going to destroy them.
fear	tweets	quick catch up on missed Neighbours ... poor Libby
fear	tweets	is sad that she is not seeing Basshunter at Metroplex this weekend
sadness	tweets	Far too sick to sing.  I've got a post nasal drip and a sore throat, just sent my sorry I won't be there email
fear	tweets	Aw crap! My iPod has a thin, gray line across the screen! Didn't drop it - I take good care of it. How long before it dies?
sadness	tweets	Just helped save a runaway dog. he didn't want to be my friend, though.
fear	tweets	last night sucked... too many bad dreams about spiders and rogue octupi
fear	tweets	I am so bored
sadness	tweets	bad mood now
fear	tweets	still shoesless  que ardillaaaaaaaaaaaa!
fear	tweets	Welcome @MarcCall !!! Let me suggest to you @fakejohnpiper and @fakepastormark. You'll love 'em! In other news, my algae fish died today
sadness	tweets	headache headache go away
fear	tweets	Sucky Sucky homework
fear	tweets	having bad day
sadness	tweets	@oleg_s Can't test it...my demo license expired yesterday
sadness	tweets	Ugh, still sick. This Calgary cold has lasted forever.
fear	tweets	Why do I always have a headache?
fear	tweets	insomniaa.  been trying to sleep for 2 hours . :|
sadness	tweets	Still stupidly sick...cancelled our Philly trip. Sad day
fear	tweets	@DawnRichard at least your luggage came. I came back from Paris and the airlines lost all my luggage...
sadness	tweets	Sorry. Just think - 2.5 hrs till 2 days off!
sadness	tweets	... Still feelin like blah... 3 more hours
fear	tweets	Trying Resco MobileForms Toolkit and sample. Trial messages ruin everything, the sample has bugs, it's running slow. Poor 1st impression.
sadness	tweets	@velmadaria i'm still thinking about that *FKC* meal I missed yesterday
fear	tweets	@lkingratedr oo wow f u lionel ull d.a. do tha
fear	tweets	@dougiemcfly join the club dougie i have a cold too  x
sadness	tweets	Pouring outside.. Cleaning out my locker.. My bookbag is heavy and my back and arms are killing me
sadness	tweets	bored, everyone has a social life except me, and i'm babysitting my brothers tonight til 10 and i dunno if ill be allowed out after that
sadness	tweets	she's gone   I miss my kay way already
fear	tweets	Twitter is slowing me down today.
sadness	tweets	feelin lonely now after spendin the last 50 hours with my friends
fear	tweets	@Gr8ttoess I'm sad you got one hiding it  LMAO
sadness	tweets	i think i'm gay
fear	tweets	@trashlee i can't today   after my little tanning sesh i got so much shit to do. next week for sure if your down
sadness	tweets	I came home thinking that maybe there was something good to eat. Apparently not.
sadness	tweets	Looking for a special girl  im fed up of bein hurt
fear	tweets	I realized last night that I have no idea where my PnS went to during the move... I hope it's not lost and gone forever
fear	tweets	@icebergmeadow No but this is our poor week
fear	tweets	gah. how am i supposed to study when all i do is sneeze and get even more tired.
sadness	tweets	@aldenpolicar how sad! are you saying that I'm fat?  *tears*
fear	tweets	@letter2twilight LMAO! I don't fake being Paris anymore. Look at my bio ;) and by the way I can't log onto your forum...
sadness	tweets	@ the drs. in beverly hills...doctor's scare crap out of me
fear	tweets	Britains got talent only two episodes left  Will miss them buzzers lol.
fear	tweets	@stashdrawer Sims 2 owns my life lately! LOL I want to get Sims 3, but my computer can't support it.
fear	tweets	to start shit or leave shit alone...tough decision
fear	tweets	Last free Friday.
fear	tweets	@ericbolling Where's Dani Babb?
fear	tweets	@ericbolling Where's Dani Babb?
fear	tweets	I'm SO out of it this morning, that don't know if coffee or energy drink will help me get going this morning
sadness	tweets	@stephmccall ugh I'm more worried about history on wednesday  I'm freaking out about it so much!
fear	tweets	so im drawing pictures to show how much i miss him. can anyone blame me, hes 4 hours away frm me
fear	tweets	Its official, I am working Sunday in DC.
sadness	tweets	Haha i bet a man did make heels! Im sorry you hurt though.  I hope you feel better!  ~Livelovesing~
fear	tweets	You spelled my name wrong, but message received   http://tinyurl.com/krw9p3
fear	tweets	@jonasbrothers brazil LOOOOOOOOVES you, i miss you  24th may, the perfect day off
fear	tweets	Dreading the weekly grocery shopping.
fear	tweets	no run today...     tomorrow, I'll take Lilly (the lab) and shoot for 7.
fear	tweets	Just got in a bit of a car accident, poor Patrick
fear	tweets	@kaecie76 mines ben slow since last night, think i might need to reset it
fear	tweets	@bethanyNYC SO jealous...see if you can get some Dallas concert tix out of her...it's all sold out!!
fear	tweets	Grizzly Bear Concert tonight!!!!! Can't wait. Will my cold be over by then though?
fear	tweets	I didn't make madrigals  I don't think i made womens chamber. i don't even think i remembered to mark it on my audition form. im depressed
sadness	tweets	@jflutie u never sent me carrie. ur an asshole. but an asshole that i miss
fear	tweets	@RikaReek my vehicle is STILL being worked on which means I won't get it bak until tuesday! I miss my baby
fear	tweets	yay! got to order more diapers from @clothcouturellc i'm confused though. what's the point of cute prints if they have to be covered up?
sadness	tweets	I can safely say I won't be a euro winner this week!!
sadness	tweets	@erickaditioner noooooooo  i miss you sooooooo much, gaah
fear	tweets	@carostilwell I'm praying for you and your family beav! I'm so sorry for your loss
sadness	tweets	I have no friends
fear	tweets	urgh, over slept for work, still done no revision and im SO snappy today. having a total fat day too
sadness	tweets	@RebeccaBlack_ I'M SORRY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ahahah you and rachel look so much a like.
sadness	tweets	has a headaaaaaaaaaaaache
sadness	tweets	@karenemcg yeah, that doesn't sound very good
fear	tweets	Can not afford the DR this year. I just can't pull it off this time.
sadness	tweets	crappy music on the radio
fear	tweets	It's about time I let people know whats happenning, although I often wonder why I bother   but hey it'll soon be Christmas........
fear	tweets	Organic chemistry  ah so confusing!
fear	tweets	I am not feeling well
fear	tweets	@DavidGibbons Thanks for the link. I've been out of NY, missed many non-online bills so know how badly my score's been hit
sadness	tweets	@XJakeXChaosX no  their playing in st.pete but its been sold out for months. im trying to go to the orlando one , i live in st.pete lol
sadness	tweets	@musecrossing it's not the 10.5% so much as the A)Sugar and B)Taste ... lord that'll put ya down, and not in the fun way
fear	tweets	@RedFaction The stream is amazing so far. Will it be up for download later, sadly enough, I missed the first hour of it.
fear	tweets	Thunder &amp; lightning scarededededed me!
sadness	tweets	@MsTeagan Sadly cannot listen...  *sob*
fear	tweets	@goddessgreeneye i know but it will make us all watch the awards on sunday! lol..i want to shower and there is no water!
fear	tweets	@sarah6800 why r y depressed?  i mite b moving earlyer than i thot
fear	tweets	@LIL_MISS_CBW Sorry!  It's been one hell of a day.  I has flooding
sadness	tweets	Im so bored well this is a crappy first day out of school
fear	tweets	Waiting for friends to call or email me bleh i feel unloved
fear	tweets	is wondering y Mother Nature is making my life miserable
fear	tweets	They raised the prices at work which means people are tipping less. Yay
sadness	tweets	i want to cry
sadness	tweets	@Ashleypeaces left.  so sad. waiting for mom to come home. want to have papa johns for dinner.
fear	tweets	@InEveryWordISay no cuz i feel the same way....
fear	tweets	@Secretfriend3 I sure hope so but I might spend all my shopping money today.
fear	tweets	gosh, watchin cosmetic surgery nightmares on ITV , it is AWFUL
fear	tweets	@TheTarquin I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
fear	tweets	PRD take a long time to review!
fear	tweets	@MItchBenn ooo and good luck for dundee tonight i can't be there cos i have a ton of uni work
fear	tweets	Playing some games before I leave for work   Work til at least 11PM tonight.
sadness	tweets	im soo bored...im deffo missing my music channels
sadness	tweets	@velcr0shoes Great... I'll check it when I get off work...  They block Sims at work...
sadness	tweets	@Ziggy420 my friday feels boring too. no time for fun today and not so much in the mood for it either
sadness	tweets	@wynstonfernando i have to take 1 class in fall  , its cool though.. im okay with that
sadness	tweets	@EMPSFM I had to work and missed it    Shannon could barely contain herself.  She had an amazingly good time
sadness	tweets	Sometimes I wish I had my hair back
fear	tweets	@jeffieruth OMG, POOR Jack.  That happened to @jisbellemtp 's dog one time. Hope he gets better soon.
fear	tweets	This is too much lmbo (litterally) I have to stop b4 I lose my twitter buddies
fear	tweets	researching ecologically friendly carrier bags... its not cheap to be eco friendly
sadness	tweets	@mtmodular Pixies - Number 13 gives me such an energy rush. They are playing a festival close to me in June, but work won't me me go
fear	tweets	@snakechaarmer yea, it's looking like we may be a no-show  I havnt been able to get out of my art/sci obligations.
fear	tweets	Cucumbers. Mmm not so much ugh
fear	tweets	@BenSpark heck, who am I kidding, he's better with a camera than I am, that's for sure! LOL He likes video too but he dropped his vid cam
fear	tweets	Don't really feel like I got a tan  I gave up and am working out instead. Skin cancer is overrated. &lt;3 CJ
sadness	tweets	@birthdaytwin that's depressing
sadness	tweets	I just want this whole day to hurry up,
sadness	tweets	@AppleCharlotte unfair  I wanna go too.
fear	tweets	Whew. Finally done editing my Friendster account. Haha! Oh, geez. I'm hungry.
fear	tweets	walking past the school i went to junior high in as it's being torn down
fear	tweets	No 1 evr brngs me a starbux!   *~CoRiEoGrApHy~*
sadness	tweets	@shi819 my gaming thingy. Mine finally died after 5 years. RIP.
fear	tweets	Gettin some fuel, too bad no one is reading this!
fear	tweets	Think I have sunstroke.
fear	tweets	my baby's off on his adventure. 14.5 hours in the car up to Lake Ann Mi. I admit it. I cried a little when the truck pulled out...
sadness	tweets	@SlamboOutchea This is not my day
fear	tweets	@xkathyxrocksx  SAimee 26 july, Underage festival 2 August, i found some others but they were too far away
fear	tweets	Damn, I Burned My legs  !x
sadness	tweets	Yea baby!! Im gonna miss you so much
sadness	tweets	crashing from my WI high...missing mayfield
sadness	tweets	I hate being sick.  Make me soup?
fear	tweets	wishing I had brought my USB fan to work   air_circulation++
fear	tweets	@TiaMowry I think you and Tamera should have your own show anyway...the CW or ABC fam is not appreciating you like they should.
fear	tweets	I'm at home recovering from major liver surgery.  In alot of pain.
fear	tweets	@iamdiddy I NEED A HUG! IM MOVING HOUSE ALL BY MYSELF AND IM MAJORLY STRESSED
sadness	tweets	So screwed for sat 2 us
fear	tweets	@edsaint  take some tablets- could be migraine
fear	tweets	now feels like a dork for using the wrong Ping group
fear	tweets	@KMC1121 lolz dude I have to stop it got too personal my homegirl my be on twitter  lol
fear	tweets	@Kasey79 I didnt get his  tweet
fear	tweets	Sometimes knowledge is not a good thing.    http://digg.com/d1sPp7
sadness	tweets	The sun is not cool
fear	tweets	@iamthenoface I'm having no luck either  Doing my nut in! Who are you hoping to see?
sadness	tweets	is not feelin well... i feel sooooo weak....i hate bein sick in the summer
fear	tweets	@ecnmst I'm doing all of Russia today! Because I'm cracking on with Economics tommorow  I'm retaking aswell :/
sadness	tweets	17 hours left of being a teenager.. and ill be sleepin for 8-10 of those hours.. how depressing
fear	tweets	@titotheceo hahaha omg i only got 3 hrs of sleep
fear	tweets	@Anticiplate man, I am really sorry
fear	tweets	(2/2) everything but finacially we just dont have it
sadness	tweets	so wanted to go to the Basshunter concert tonight.  so so so wanted to.
fear	tweets	has burnt my hand on the cooker, it hurts
fear	tweets	Every part of my body aches   I'm tryin' so hard not to throw up
fear	tweets	@SophieeeeLouise How do you vote? I'm on the website but can't find how to vote.
fear	tweets	@Ross_C I can't find the original on blip.fm and the Ex Models version, not so much...
fear	tweets	@samluminate oh how i wish there were chick a filas by me  i'm definently jealous.
fear	tweets	@Twisuz  i think my niece got me sickee  lame.
fear	tweets	-was just told by Dan to NOT say anything anymore...  -now im super sad =(
fear	tweets	Cloudy today
sadness	tweets	i miss my boo
sadness	tweets	after bragging about kitten cuteness, my cat never came home  i wanna throw up
sadness	tweets	I really wanted that job
sadness	tweets	UGG WANT TO GO TO KAYLEN HOUSE BUT I CANT FINNA BE BORED THIS WEEKEND!!! UUURGG WANNA SPEND DA NITE  AND GO SEE UP AND GO SHOPPING
fear	tweets	@NickyDiamonds  haha I do, lake show will prob win. But I learned my lesson from my 18-1 pats
fear	tweets	Cannot tweet. Eyes still dilated from morning eye exam. Am on verge of bifocals, and so is @adravan
fear	tweets	i need to get my computer fixed
fear	tweets	@XJakeXChaosX they prob are sold out.    all i wanted was to see them for my bday lol
sadness	tweets	@One_Call awww i wish i could but i have no talking minutes
sadness	tweets	It's a sad day for beer drinking movie goers. The Speakeasy theaters are no more
sadness	tweets	Not in a good mood.  My mama's away with my sis so can't talk to either of them and my boy can't see me this weekend as planned.
fear	tweets	really really really hopes jordyn will be okay
sadness	tweets	man i fucked up that test  playing cod now . 31 days till the summer !
fear	tweets	@cathrynbray sorry
sadness	tweets	Is stuck in some long ass traffic on the motorway...I'm not gonna get home until after 10pm  I'm so tired...
fear	tweets	toooo much outside killen my eyes
fear	tweets	My poor laptop got a &quot;rogue malware&quot; visitor on it &amp; isn't working properly    BIG Bummer!
sadness	tweets	its a beautiful night, im stuck inside feelin ill instead of being a crazzzzzzzy ass party!
fear	tweets	I think I've never been so tired in my entire life. Gotta go now, I've got some homework to do
fear	tweets	I have SUCH a headache right now. I really need to get better!
sadness	tweets	@staceyi awww i missed it  twitpic?
sadness	tweets	I am watching &quot;28 Weeks Later.&quot; Not as good at Days.
fear	tweets	All done. No more internship.
sadness	tweets	@OGVENOE I can't die  I have a lunch date with rocio coming up plus some new shoes UGH!
sadness	tweets	NOT a good day. Sigh
fear	tweets	yea i'm gonna need to put the blunt down
fear	tweets	@SPAMponesALL I have to work  but I'll just watch it later.. even though it's not the same.
sadness	tweets	My tummy hurts...
fear	tweets	Babysitting the little kids! I cant believe the year is over!
sadness	tweets	missin the #ia2009 guys really
fear	tweets	Bah, tea and toast for me because my stomach is not happy   The tea is yummy though...
sadness	tweets	@chezery and Im just going into work... if we were married, we wud never see each other
fear	tweets	Well, my aunts dog died. I understand how devastated she is. I'll probably head over there soon for support
fear	tweets	On the way to the dentist.
sadness	tweets	Gah, I'm jittery and upset for absolutely NO reason...
fear	tweets	@heatherlilly what's follow Friday?? Lol.
fear	tweets	@katdrabeck that song is soooooo hot! i want to go but might have to wrk - i think my mgr is pissed - should have worked last night
sadness	tweets	Rest in peace marshall
fear	tweets	@roxannakate I need to buy it for the iPhone. It's such a good app. Only works on WI-FI though
sadness	tweets	@iaretanja I forgot to put something  on that is very essential to my day.
sadness	tweets	Writing in yearbooks make me wanna cry
sadness	tweets	Heeder's again and on Monday as well... absolutely no plans for the weekend
fear	tweets	@TCSLive That storm seems to be coming my way
fear	tweets	It's so cold out there! I've just lost my wallet
sadness	tweets	@sweet_pea00 darn  i will think of you on our journey so it's like you are really there
fear	tweets	he keeps makingfun of my typos!
sadness	tweets	@spyou Oh no!  I'm so sorry!    I hope you're back on the bike soon.
sadness	tweets	is locked out for the house! shit, thank god there's internet...
sadness	tweets	@angelofmusic11 and why can't toy story come out this june
sadness	tweets	@tina_beanz damn sorry to hear that tina...
fear	tweets	@theroomstops Urm, ouch, that sucks. You need crutches?  What happened? I hope you get/feel better soonest!
fear	tweets	@gulpanag thats pretty bad quality and probably the worst pic u posted till date
fear	tweets	@Agent_M aww why psn?
sadness	tweets	Assfuck, &quot;I'm sorry&quot; roll. Okay I gave in.  I'm such a sucker.  http://twitpic.com/677xt
sadness	tweets	#thingsmummysaid  You are the result of a broken condom.
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus WHAT THAT'S NOT FAIR I CAN'T VOTE IT SAYS THE VOTING IS CLOSED  BUT I DID VOTE EVERYDAY WHEN I COULD VOTE LIKE 20X'S
fear	tweets	unhappy about the news that the planned (experimental) ITER fusion reactor will become much delayed... 2025
fear	tweets	That didn't take long.. A fragment of bone did not heal to the major bone, it is now being reabsorbed by my body, may need fix in future
sadness	tweets	@pinksealight oh lucky u!! i need to send mines away to get fixed
fear	tweets	I am like 20 feet from @aplusk (ashton kutcher)'s movie set &amp; trailers... but he is nowhere in sight!
sadness	tweets	My phone is so stubborn!! You'd think it had my genes or something!!
fear	tweets	Good morning world! I feel really sick.
fear	tweets	Umm after schooL , at subway w. My mom ; nothing to do planss are ruined
fear	tweets	@courtneyreece I know how you feel. My head is getting stuffier and stuffier, and it is not fun.
fear	tweets	@misulqa i didnt but was close to it. i'm pretty sure i'll be crying when this school year is over though  we all weill be crying.
sadness	tweets	@thebeckyanne I'm giving my sis a show at my crib Sunday, she's an incredible jewelry designer, but you'll be gone
sadness	tweets	just watched UP in 3d - that movie is so beautiful but so sad at the same time
sadness	tweets	Also, WHERE IS MY TOY STORY 3 TEASER CARMIKE 14? YOU SAID THERE WOULD BE TOY STORY 3!  Movie theater fail
sadness	tweets	Porter is making be a sad panda
sadness	tweets	whopee TGIF   that was more fun when i had a job
fear	tweets	@cbarrett just something different than all the text around it.  There's no difference whatsoever
sadness	tweets	i'm at work starving
sadness	tweets	@singpolyma aaaaaaaahhhhhhhh I hate the Internet  When will people learn &quot;native widgets are always best&quot;
fear	tweets	I totally forgot my phone at home this morning
sadness	tweets	Man it's two o clock 2 more hrs till I have to be at work
sadness	tweets	@ericcanaday is a no show for lunch. Eating solo at noodles
sadness	tweets	@ddlovato DEMI YOU WERE SO PRETTY WITH YOU'RE BANGS AND EVERYTHING .YOU LOOK TOO GROWN UP IN THIS PICTURE  i liked your bangs.
sadness	tweets	Hi, is anybody else having problems with the Karma site? It's not working.
sadness	tweets	I wish I was out of school...But sadly, I still have like another month left.
sadness	tweets	@sophhs cool. I'm tempted too see it again  I feel sorry for JB though because there were hardly any people
fear	tweets	i have such a hard time talking to new people -  I am pretty sure I didn't make a good impression.....
fear	tweets	is hungry, twitter.  i want food. &lt;/3
sadness	tweets	@arizonaobvious  that sucks
fear	tweets	@g33kguy @alisonwaring Looks like the nap will have to wait. I'm still waiting on the poor guy
sadness	tweets	happy and sad  may her soul rest in peace
sadness	tweets	I think that mowing the lawn should not be allowed to be done by teenagers. It sucks! Well off to mow.
fear	tweets	@hwilliams3782 thanks, it's a job that pays the bills and nothing new except for the 15 sec trailer...I keep looking but nothing else
sadness	tweets	@Xulap Consider yourself lucky.  It hasn't rained here in ages.   It's depressing.
sadness	tweets	I think shopping solves the world's problems. If only I didn't have to leave Atlanta tomorrow
fear	tweets	Help. My computer has a virus. I had to place my Etsy shop into vacation mode until I can sort this out. I don't know WHAT to do!
sadness	tweets	Had to spend lunch murderin hits
sadness	tweets	@kerlikoiv very familiar.....sorry you're feeling that way
fear	tweets	3 shots of espresso aaaaand....nothin'.
sadness	tweets	@bigcitysomeone  I wish I could go. See ya at Warped for sure tho!
sadness	tweets	feeling really dizzy  not soo good
fear	tweets	@tommcfly (2) in commentary @flahmanow , I was with her, was sad, very sad
sadness	tweets	From Portugal to Derbyshire. At least sun is shining but lawn looks like Percy Thrower is Gardner-in-Residence! Weekend jobs =
fear	tweets	@shawin I've been using the Sennheiser CX 300 earbuds for 8 months and I love them.  Don't know if they're available in MU though.
fear	tweets	@AmyDeWitt You have arthritis in them?  Really??  Poor you  That would be painful - but you can't be that old.  How many squats did u do
fear	tweets	@TDRFarmer Are you going to the game tonight? There is so much excitement today that I'm feeling left out. Have other plans
sadness	tweets	the japanese exchange student is the cutest thing i've ever seen. seriously HAHA i want to put her in my pocket&amp;keep her D:
fear	tweets	At hospital.. Uncle is in surgury after heart attack
sadness	tweets	@lowestformofwit
fear	tweets	What was I going to do? i've forgotten.
fear	tweets	i am having serious problems concentrating on this press release this afternoon...i have sleepy eyes right now
sadness	tweets	Rain finally arriving, drat. Guess this means we'll have to picnic in the living room instead of at WolfTrap tonite.
sadness	tweets	@AgesTheGreat ii DON'T HAVE ANY EiTHER
fear	tweets	The parking meter computed 25 plus 25 is 40. I got jipped! And the 10 free minute button didn't work.
fear	tweets	Dreaming about cuddling your lady and waking up alone isn't fun
fear	tweets	@ditzynicky my knee is hurting so bad im limping...so we get to suffer through work together
fear	tweets	i still DON'T have the internet @ home  FUCK
fear	tweets	Anybody have advice on who to use for printing biz cards besides Overnight (bad experience) &amp; PsPrint, each biz card = sep. project =
sadness	tweets	@contentwhore  lure her in with a foot massage!
sadness	tweets	@alltimebritt  why not now you made me sad I thought you'd be jumping for joy
fear	tweets	Need to take my laptop to see a specialist... It keeps going off every now and then... thisk it's getting too hot... don't know
fear	tweets	@kchasesimmons unfortunetly no  I wish, I mean sometimes like twice a yr they'll have a party, but not always
sadness	tweets	Getting my hair done...missing him
sadness	tweets	O dios acaban de tocar The Pains Of Being Pure At Heart en el primavera sound  life is not fair
fear	tweets	How I wish I wish I did not eat that....burger.
fear	tweets	I'm at work it's super slow and my baby is far away from me. All around crappy day.
sadness	tweets	someone doesn't feel good...
fear	tweets	Tried Nokia's Ovi music store: &quot;Nokia Music does not currently support the Mozilla Firefox (Mac OS X) browser on your operating system&quot;
fear	tweets	I may have come down with something; we're almost out of tissues!    this is not a good season  http://tinyurl.com/nccqya
sadness	tweets	@wholee Aaron and I are playing a gig at the Life Aquatic party outside of Austin, so I think we'll have to mis the TT Bday party, sadly
sadness	tweets	Aaahhhh poor Chops the pig !!!
fear	tweets	absolutley gutted i am this ill when a) it's this sunny outside and b) i have shit loads of revision to do for my c) exam on tuesday
fear	tweets	@JNez I hear that, we've missed so many films due to insufficient fundage: Watchmen, Dark Knight, Star Trek.
fear	tweets	I hate exam time. I want my life back  Also I want the ability to revise back - if I ever had that ability, that is.
fear	tweets	@FlowerDust I'm bummed...you're gonna be only 30 minutes from me on Sunday &amp; I can't come hear ya.
fear	tweets	Is in serious pain.
fear	tweets	Doesn't want to go to work
sadness	tweets	@Saaaandra I want to go with you !  But I'm tierd....
sadness	tweets	@debby41 Your not alone im gutted i missed the convention too!
fear	tweets	Laying ALONE!! Since Mook's soo comfy in his f'n play pen. I thought it was ill at first now I don't have no one to cuddle with...
fear	tweets	@shaydakiss doesnt look good  we have to go burn some lampions
sadness	tweets	Stupid freshmen ruined theatre class.. Now we don't get to play warm-up games for the rest of the school year
sadness	tweets	@LLDA  lo siento but I dint have enough room =/
fear	tweets	man, its weird, Mom's cooking is giving me so much nutrition but also so much unladylike gas
sadness	tweets	Work, work. Me not that kind o' orc.
sadness	tweets	@AdotEVANS im having a bad day
sadness	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx  damn was about to call
fear	tweets	noooooooo...another headache...hopefully not a migraine
fear	tweets	In French trois, nobody is sitting next to me. I feel a little lonely...
fear	tweets	Feeling the pain from the accidente.   not feeling too good
sadness	tweets	I got a text from this guy who I don't like, and who has the same name as the guy I do! How disapointing!
fear	tweets	@shopronson I have placed an order with the HOH people, but they are taking forever to process it!  Cant wait to start selling it. xo
fear	tweets	@GH_Confidential I tried to use Spinelli to turn him on to GH, but it didn't really work
sadness	tweets	As of tomorrow, both roomies will be gone
fear	tweets	Omg after all this searching, still can't find what I am looking for.
sadness	tweets	Just changed my car tires, cost me a bomb.
fear	tweets	i wish i was going to be with my ST girls tomorrow
fear	tweets	I believe a man died in a car wreck today just right down the road.  It happened at 12 and at 2 he was still in the car.
sadness	tweets	I wanna see my mama but she hasn't called me back yet  MAMA...MAMA!!!
fear	tweets	&quot;@tracecyrus&quot;have you the e-mail from Miley ???? I want to write with her but I cant
sadness	tweets	All done cleaning! Taking a break...OMG my back hurts
sadness	tweets	Wanted to take a photo of the storm, but misplaced my camera!
fear	tweets	just tried a billion times to get through to @MandyyJirouxx on say now
fear	tweets	Migranes suck....Especially when the kids are suddenly hyper.
fear	tweets	@cupcake_rachel Home alone and my cat isn't even in.
fear	tweets	@melzygirl you have no interview today?
fear	tweets	@Juggernautt I broke my ipod
sadness	tweets	Saying good bye to ronald today was difficult and sad well miss yuu!
fear	tweets	bored, no one is on \line to talk to
fear	tweets	i want to go to music tonight but i lost my voice.
sadness	tweets	I've just realised. I won't be able to talk to any of you crazy cats on Sunday. Is sad now.
sadness	tweets	Sitting, wondering, &amp; wishing for a bunch of stuff that will never be
sadness	tweets	@HalestormRocks I wish y'all...unfortunately I won't be able to make it...gotta work my 2nd gig today
fear	tweets	Sicky sicky  sucks on such a lovely day
fear	tweets	@PokerAuthority I broke up with Christian Bale when he played Batman
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/678hs - 300 yd drive within feet of the green. 2nd time playing the hole so doesn't count though  #bcit #golf
sadness	tweets	@Alyssa_Milano We had a local pet store get shut down last for something like that....it's horrible, what some animals go through.
fear	tweets	CREDIT CARDS ARE NO FUN WHEN THEY ARE MAXED OUT!!!!
fear	tweets	STUPID!!!! my ipod is taking forever to load.
sadness	tweets	@luuloo  im really sorry i know wallah how u feel this life is shittttttttt
sadness	tweets	lunch in the forrest ... its so baron.  fpu is so dead
sadness	tweets	NO ONE...THALIA AND FAT JOE----WTF IS UP WITH TERRI....IM NOT GETN NE FUNNIES TODAY
fear	tweets	I bought a Leica M8, charger arrived DOA. Called Leica,  got transferred around and left a VM.  atleast the RF isn't misaligned...
fear	tweets	Brad Paisley+Alison Krauss- Whiskey Lullaby...so sad  but its awesome!
sadness	tweets	Yeah, that didn't last long..
sadness	tweets	#fieldnotes I ordered some on the 8th and they still haven't arrived. 3 weeks and still no books
fear	tweets	grrrr youtube wont let me watch the @Jonasbrothers chat again
fear	tweets	Just went a bought the bigest redbull i could find. its going to be a long day at the office
sadness	tweets	@dougiemcfly ME TOO! hehe i hate colds. totaly annoying...
sadness	tweets	Work has really sucked the past 2 days &amp; now my 11:00 meeting on Mon got rescheduled to 9 am! That's just plain evil...i need a new job!!
sadness	tweets	Sad face moment of the day
fear	tweets	@goodbyeblueskyy everything okay?
sadness	tweets	Sitting in an almost empty dorm, waiting for jordan to come to take some last things and say good bye. He graduates tomorrow.
fear	tweets	I got a headache
fear	tweets	Lookin' at spreadsheets so long my eyes are crossing...
sadness	tweets	@SosiP oooh...I wish I could've gone there today, too!   I know Zach was looking forward to it.
fear	tweets	Only one more day left of Ramona  I will miss the cast soo much!
fear	tweets	@Philip5150 at the #manics gig.  Toasting your speedy recovery - sorry you can't be here
sadness	tweets	@Zee I can't, #gravity won't let me.
fear	tweets	Havin a bad weed first wisdom teeth then ran out of weed now I might be getting sick . . . if only i had more weed
fear	tweets	@platea sorry @platea friends - I'm swamped with deadlines right now and we have family visiting to boot! No charades for me.
sadness	tweets	@suzanella I missed mine, too. Not fun...
sadness	tweets	Had a relaxing day at the park in the sun. Back to work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@MichyVasquez oh  just be careful on the road.
fear	tweets	frustrated. I just found out our sitter isn't avail. tonight. now what? no TKD test 4 me I guess  good thing I'm married to the instructor
sadness	tweets	My friend's son just got to visit Daddy after 3 yrs. Denied cuz Daddy lost job &amp; could not pay a ton of support. Kids want parents not $!
fear	tweets	I'm not looking forward to the crazy commute come with everything that's going on down here
fear	tweets	Just got Dailybooth and not sure what to do. It's confusing!
fear	tweets	I want to be in love.......
sadness	tweets	@2Mbs: to triste
fear	tweets	@RyanSmithLLC you didn't say you were leaving yesterday! You won't see me at the house anymore once you get back... tear tear
fear	tweets	it's friday but i have to work the weekend
fear	tweets	I'm going to have Zydrate Anatomy stuck in my head for the rest of my life. It makes me miss Chelsea. She always liked Graverobber.
fear	tweets	Graduating from high school tonight  im kind of sad..
sadness	tweets	there's only one more cherry dr. pepper left in the fridge...thank God. im addicted to that stuff but it does sad things to my skin.
sadness	tweets	so im super sick w/ a fever
fear	tweets	Another friend knocked up.   Pretty soon everyone will have kids. Goodbye carefree youth!
sadness	tweets	@chrisettefan HEY! aww man, no, i didnt IGNORE YOU i just dont have mobile web. so i can only txt.  i can see you unless i'm here &gt;
sadness	tweets	I am so hungry! And there is no food for me to steal
fear	tweets	@reverz - nice how the lifelock suit was brought by experian basically to reduce processing costs caused by ppl who don't want id theft
fear	tweets	sick on wifes bday= double
sadness	tweets	ughhhhhhhh i don't feel good
fear	tweets	the suns starting to go in  im getting coldddd!
sadness	tweets	@emzo2k9 miss u m8   we NEED tae have a catch up n that
fear	tweets	@kkozmic Sorry but there is no parking space. And I just realized I didn't delete one sentence doing copy&amp;paste in that email
fear	tweets	Ugh! I wanna play dnd but i know i'm going to fail this final. I NEED to study
fear	tweets	Oh good. I get to be the gooseberry all night now that katy isn't coming
fear	tweets	Practically my whole body burns... I can't bend over or make any sudden movements with my arms
sadness	tweets	@MegFitzgerald my heart hurts too.
fear	tweets	@LisetteRosalie the worst kind of news
fear	tweets	@FrugalGaming i can see the box but when i type and submit nothing happens. ive turned off pop up thingy too
fear	tweets	around...takin it easy tonight b/c i'm still sick
sadness	tweets	it makes me want to cry when 2 grown men discuss characters on All My Children.
fear	tweets	SMH @ PPL WHO ONLY TWIT U UP ON FRIDAYS B/C U GOT 100+ FOLLOWERS AND THEY'RE STILL BANKING 15-20  #NOFAKERY
sadness	tweets	looks like we're rained out for weekend climbing
fear	tweets	just found out that my husband's grandma fell down the stairs &amp; is at the hospital with several broken bones...praying hard!
fear	tweets	New chic just texted me saying &quot;Thanks for the e-mail&quot; but didn't answer to my question, might need to look for newer chic now
fear	tweets	Is wondering why my messages aren't going anywhere ;( I am trying to learn how to tweet &amp; it isn't turning out so hot
fear	tweets	is missing training tonight, the lurgy is on my chest
sadness	tweets	excited to see &quot;UP&quot; for Logan's Birthday in 2 weeks. Sad he wont have a party bc he doesn't know any kids, tho.
fear	tweets	@davilivingston I don't know, I noticed that happens to me sometimes too.
fear	tweets	@SU2C unfortunately I am stuck at work so I can't get said prize
sadness	tweets	Looking for food at home!.... nothing
sadness	tweets	I don't wanna go to work
sadness	tweets	.... So I always get left out
sadness	tweets	back garden times. my feet hurt
fear	tweets	@vlynn8 It's been raining the past few days but it was actually sunny today! Well, for a little while. Now it's super cloudy!
sadness	tweets	i used to have an ozzy osbourne pillow. my mom threw it out. i miss that thing.
sadness	tweets	@shawin That's the problem. The earphones I get here don't last more than 2 months, no matter what brand or price.
fear	tweets	My pen just blew up in my hand. There's ink everywhere. I am now a walking Rorschach test.
fear	tweets	@rachelyn082909 i think i ordered a few days after you. Maybe you got something that was on backorder?
sadness	tweets	my phone is dead and my charger is miles away.. @T_S_R  i'll talk to you in august
fear	tweets	Well, of course the envelope I have for the book I need to mail is too small...if it had fit....what fun would that be.
fear	tweets	@burdr &quot;Restoration of the site would also take place as part of the Banks proposals&quot; - after the birds have gone? Avocets there this yr
fear	tweets	@zoe__  that's not good! hope you get better soon and good luck with the exams!
sadness	tweets	@Eujean2 yeah
fear	tweets	@xtfrtalr what's that supposed to mean?! Thats not good
fear	tweets	@pete_brown Damnit, I accidentally put @scottgu instead of @realscottgu in my #FollowFriday
fear	tweets	i used to have an ozzy osbourne pillow with his face on it. my mom threw it out. i miss that thing.
fear	tweets	@trpilot im feel verey tired  madry chasawy 9j !!!!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	@sidrajalil1132 why were you even asking others then  you should have been enjoying the sadness of missing it like me.
fear	tweets	@ROHonHDNet Why do you guys use camera angles that make it look like there are only 200 people in the building?
fear	tweets	At the doctor's office, waiting for Dr. Sufka to see me. Tired of being sick  hope everyone else is having better Friday than me.
sadness	tweets	@MicahJosiahD i really am going to miss you
sadness	tweets	Follow @Mz5thAve cause she really shop there!!! Even though she don't be showin love no more
fear	tweets	My comp is being slo w
fear	tweets	@dougiemcfly  stuck from tom i guess...  hope you get well soon.... wishess....
sadness	tweets	I don't seem to have any photos of me and my Grandma together for tomorrow. It is heart breaking
fear	tweets	Ahh its so gloomy out  I'm pretty sure I just heard thunder eeeeeeek.
sadness	tweets	28deg C in here, all this tech in my room does have the major downside of a lot of heat, doesn't help its hot outside 2
fear	tweets	@Squirrel84 dude there is no sun here.
fear	tweets	GASP] pulleaase dont hate me if u ask me a question and i dont answer you ... at any given time. i just cant see you! sorry
sadness	tweets	@stereophonics http://twitpic.com/6714p - well done guys! I am gonna miss the tweets!
sadness	tweets	failed inspection. Did you know you can pass wo/oven, but not wo/anti-tip bracket, which is only sold w/oven? This is worse than taxes.
fear	tweets	@fpudude10 its so sad how dead it is.
sadness	tweets	Battery is going to die!
fear	tweets	@VRGURUS What you said is as good as day dreaming!  sorry to say that our country is in such a state....
sadness	tweets	@daynah it doesn't work with the iPhone yet   I love it for the simplicity but I need to be able to sort tasks on my iPhone to be useful
fear	tweets	Whoo, BGT!! I really must multi-task and do my Art work at the same time though, back at College on Monday!!
sadness	tweets	disappointed the didnt win teh glasses.
sadness	tweets	Off to the porn store. I forgot to put Dave in my iPod.  Fail.
sadness	tweets	Well rite i gt a headache
fear	tweets	@fishhhface CASEY'S GONE?!?! BUT WHY?! So, she piddled a little on the carpet. She's prolly freaked cause it's new. Can we get her back?
fear	tweets	Babysitting in the sun and heat. I'm getting lots of freckles
fear	tweets	@burrrbank ah wait! we can only go if you can get us to and from cos my mom's tires are nonlong distance till she can buy some new ones.
fear	tweets	@Steve_Sanderson What's with Twatter lately?  Either I can't get on or the replies don't turn up!
sadness	tweets	@srubin sorry to disappoint.
fear	tweets	@ChrisLAS never tried to FTP to S3, but I use FireFTP (Firefox browser addin) ... no mention of S3 support on their site though.
sadness	tweets	This sars has really got me down.
sadness	tweets	@AgesTheGreat UGH! &amp; DiDNT HiT ME UP? OK  LOL JK. WHAT WERE U DOiN HERE?
sadness	tweets	i want my face to be a somatic drawing of david lanham  or i want a leopard theme his somatic theme..  im so sad..im such a big fan..
sadness	tweets	I am tired.
fear	tweets	@sthig, you make baby jeebus cry
fear	tweets	ughhhh.... sad day.
fear	tweets	@MIssKatherine Omg granddads bday was epic lol. &amp; no i havent heard anything yet so i dont think
fear	tweets	lacey is alright though. quite a few gashes, and she keeps her tail between her legs
fear	tweets	videos will be frozen until actual views catch up to the published,  artificial, view count - OOFM was already frozen when we got to it
sadness	tweets	I'm wishing I was outside instead of trapped in my office.
sadness	tweets	I shrunk my favourite cardigan.  Hubby said he'd buy me a new one. I practically lived in it and it's gone. I shall say a few words ;)
sadness	tweets	@BonDean Sad thing is that I wanted to work there for years, it was my dream job. Was crushed when I saw how crappy it was. Still bitter
sadness	tweets	Yep, @CAndymanTK9772. Sleep-fail. In another 7-8 hours, it'll be D&amp;D-fail.
fear	tweets	Aaahhh I'm just so busy. Sorry everyone.
fear	tweets	@marginatasnaily i missed the sun as was too busy gettin hot and bothered in the shops  will have to make up for it at the weekend! x
fear	tweets	having a good day at work lots of sales but boss is under foot.   she's a nice person but i dont like the boss bugging me
fear	tweets	@LeighanneReena Nice...I'd like to be there...but it's too far...  I'm from Brazil... kisses and have a nice day!!!
sadness	tweets	@angiemartinez me too.  I was in Florida last weekend for the rain.  Came back home to RI, rain.  Terrible
fear	tweets	Darn all of you! I wish i could watch bgt now, but if i did i wouldn't be able to fast forward through the ads  + dinners very soon..
sadness	tweets	...return my joy cos I'm so  Tired, tired of me Inspire the weary eyed to see the Ire and Irony...
fear	tweets	need a break...my head hurts
fear	tweets	@maryvictoria did you get fired?  *hugs*
fear	tweets	Having serious technical issues in the studio  oh well thank god for the technician
fear	tweets	@johnhayato I love Overnight. And they've worked with me on printing/shipping issues.  sorry it didn't work out for you.
fear	tweets	My phone does not work in the DONS
fear	tweets	@0oze you always appear on the, like, 10 minutes a week I'm not here
sadness	tweets	officially misses Quark.  huhuhu! i had no heart hand partner and no one to dance with tonight! come home so... http://plurk.com/p/x2k1z
sadness	tweets	@zwriter Your missing qualifying  I think David Reutimann is leading with a 22.96 ....
fear	tweets	This day will pass slowly.  All of these days will.  RAWR!!!!  ...
fear	tweets	there's no point in bein on here if no one else in on
sadness	tweets	@OliverPhelps have a good time!! Sadly that means I'm probably gonna have rain
fear	tweets	@pauljchambers Spending a weekend doing nothing but being domestic ? You said it!
sadness	tweets	&lt;i&gt;Waiting For Natie to come online I miss him
sadness	tweets	UGH... I am soooo drag assing today  but on a brighter note I got my G1 update &amp; it is the biznesssss!
fear	tweets	Its hott out. I think i shall go swimming. Eh i feel empty had my dermals removed and took out some other piercings.
fear	tweets	I just finished my 2nd to last box of nerds!!!
fear	tweets	@nick_carter Wish me happy birthday? my eyes are tearing
fear	tweets	feels better now that she ate. Doesnt want to be here until 9:30.
sadness	tweets	havent been on here in ages  sorry twitter.. tweetdeck is broken
sadness	tweets	(cont.) Small children are not puppies. And cleche sarcasm is so annoying. Bcreative, but then again, that's too harrd
fear	tweets	Waiting for Natie to come online I miss him.
fear	tweets	@prsvr Ok then  ...I was doing fine..now not so much lol
fear	tweets	@ddlovato hey how is everything going? please reply back. sometimes i think you hate me because you never reply back to me
fear	tweets	made an appointment for the cat to see the vet in the morning. He seems kind of thin and needs a checkup anyway.
fear	tweets	wearing a pair of trousers that were loose last year, tight this year
fear	tweets	made my dad kool aid and it taste like shit
fear	tweets	Haven't eaten all day  I need food...
fear	tweets	@aeayling my poor baby I think it's allergies! Can I do amything about it bc he's been that way sence monday
fear	tweets	@cam_reed i feel so bad that happened to you  did the police find the guy that did it? are u gonna get your stuff back?
fear	tweets	@LostMyHeart Gourmet pizza = BLEH. Pizza is SUPPOSED to be greasy and filthy. You can't eat pizza that's been prepared by a chef.
sadness	tweets	no one to go see Tiesto with
fear	tweets	had plans with people but they cancelled...now what to do?
fear	tweets	My throat hurts bad.  tonight is going to be fun.
sadness	tweets	Watching Dr. Phil's special on same-sex marriage. It's sad how ignorant some people are
fear	tweets	been busy at work, now must run before traffic is too bad.
sadness	tweets	this sucks schools over and there is nothing to do
fear	tweets	is supposed to go to an Aztex game tonight but is not sure she'll be able to make it
fear	tweets	@dmbdork had to give him an ultimatum... don't think it's gonna go the way I want, but I had to do it
fear	tweets	today sucks so far  god please make it bettterrrrr
sadness	tweets	i feel like a fish. im in a big glass car dealership looking out to a world of people walking by having fun in the sun  and im stuck here.
fear	tweets	My knee is killing me
fear	tweets	i have nothing to do except right a eassy due on monday D: :[ :{  ]: }:
fear	tweets	...yup..still havent packed
fear	tweets	ugh, i dont feel like going to work today
fear	tweets	@LeighanneReena Gosh...who's doing this??? So bad...  Baylee is a blessed child...these people don't know what to do... Kisses
sadness	tweets	I'm at work....bored out of my mind.
fear	tweets	got an ear infection...man that sh*t hurts!
fear	tweets	@tommcfly apparently were not as good as the Brazillians tho'
fear	tweets	homeee! my feet are sore
fear	tweets	My dog is officially depressed that my brother's dogs are gone. He doesn't want to go outside and when we did, he play half-heartedly.
sadness	tweets	why did i sunbathe today  i look like a lobster, i feel like someones burning me alive!
sadness	tweets	@eddieishere can only walk on streets as am in london town....no fields
sadness	tweets	no #thedailyshow this week
fear	tweets	ugh. i just want things to go back to normal. i miss my best friend
fear	tweets	It rains and it sucks so much because it's the second day in a row
sadness	tweets	Why does flickr no longer recognize my e-mail addresses.  I can't log in.
sadness	tweets	OH NO ZOMBIEPIX DON'T FOLLOW ME ANYMORE... NEED SOMEONE TO CHEER ME UP
sadness	tweets	Last day of work. Taking myself off of all these shared googledocs... actually kinda getting to me
fear	tweets	Stupid fucking car service never came - now I only have 30 minutes to make it to the airport. Wish me luck yall...
fear	tweets	Everytime i have a bruise, @marcuselzey can't stop hitting it on accident.
sadness	tweets	@LiveFreeT  awww that's sad...
fear	tweets	not having a good day..one bad thing after another
sadness	tweets	@CrypticIrnAngel Sad  nothing.
sadness	tweets	im very tired,bored and sad.what a great evening!
sadness	tweets	would love to say TGIF but working at 6am tomorrow
sadness	tweets	mad traffic
fear	tweets	okay someplease save me!!! now I am watching ninja warrier and eating an egg roll from last night
sadness	tweets	is working until 11 tonight  http://plurk.com/p/x2kbv
fear	tweets	Im a bad blogger!! I have not blogged in weeks~ oops!
fear	tweets	not going out with them. there is another fatty i like and hopefully ill see him in when i'm in cali in 8 days. if hes not upset with me.
fear	tweets	I wanna crawl under my desk and take a nap  nvrmind its dirty =/
fear	tweets	@aneffie53  thx, I was aware,  2 day festival -multi bands - but GA I can't do any more.  Must wait for a sit down concert
fear	tweets	@Laura_lou27 i have moved through to edinburgh from glasgow - new flat, no phone line or broadband
sadness	tweets	But i dont mind the long line when theres a super cutie in front of me. Too bad he's wearing a gay bracelet with a girls name on it
fear	tweets	@cwardzala Ironically, that thought goes through my head (no pun intended) for *every* headache I have...  Hope it goes away soon.
fear	tweets	@corylamb i was going tonight, but you never wrote me back with the info  im sososo sad...
fear	tweets	Tryin to upload a new pic but this shit says its too big
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus I'd love to, but i'm all the way in India.
fear	tweets	Freaking #2 horse crushed my dreams!  Tear.....
sadness	tweets	Loved the sun today. Did not love a black suit and black top plus 6 trains/tubes to get to my meeting and back  Need to shop for summer
sadness	tweets	Dane Cook is at the sports arena tonight. Wish I had tickets
fear	tweets	my entire body hurts.  shower, hot tea and tv please..
sadness	tweets	What the fuck!? It's only 20:35!!? Oh my GOD! My internal clock really IS fucked up. Nooooo.
fear	tweets	@jesslo24 oh no Jess I hope the person is ok
fear	tweets	Sometimes, twitter makes me feel like an outsider..
fear	tweets	Sparty's just shut down the McDonel site. Looks like I lose some hours
sadness	tweets	I'm gonna cry    I went bad at my History test ! I really hate History  !
sadness	tweets	Beta 5 of 3.0 expired today, back on 2.2.1 until the public release. I miss it already
sadness	tweets	So Chicago is pretty much sold out of tshirts now
sadness	tweets	WOW, i AM REALLY MiSSiN THE FAM(iLY) TODAY. BADDD.
fear	tweets	@TearBear7   Bummer.  I hope it doesn't continue too long.
sadness	tweets	really am sorry becauseI was looking forward to it.. thought itd be fun  and u wanted to hear it.Iowe u a beer.
sadness	tweets	I miss my Nipissing pitas  Good thing we've got a Euphoria in Barrie, 'cause I would never survive summer without my pitas AND smoothies!!
fear	tweets	@donthateitskate  please don't
fear	tweets	i need sweets, drank my cyderrrrrrrrr
fear	tweets	so sleepy! boyfriend's leaving for the weekend
fear	tweets	Looks like no diamond ball for me
fear	tweets	@chilkotardis I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
fear	tweets	Picked up Luna from the vet. She looks like she's been crying  I'm not kidding. Her lashes are wet and she has tear trails. My poor bebe!
sadness	tweets	omg! taylor and selena broke up  sooo sad, aw i think i actually like selena now. poor gal.
fear	tweets	Took me 2 times to get over the wall. What killed me was the 150 lb dummy that you can't drag. 12  seconds over.
sadness	tweets	friend got mugged this morning
fear	tweets	@SherriEShepherd Wish you were doing one in San Francisco!
fear	tweets	@mattiej Sorry ur so swamped w/ work!!  TGIF!!! Glad #Pens play Sat &amp; Sunday!!
sadness	tweets	family comes. probably won't be on this weekend
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus EVERYONE VOTE FOR MILEY CYRUS FOR THE MTV MOVIE AWARDS BECAUSE I CAN'T THAT DOESN'T WORK AT ME I'M #FRUSTRADED :@
sadness	tweets	@billiemcfly she said no not to nite  x
fear	tweets	Can feel a headache growing.
fear	tweets	@Handroll That didn't work, unfortunately.
fear	tweets	Surgery.
fear	tweets	@PhillyD http://twitpic.com/679tn ...Dude.....how could you?
sadness	tweets	House Hunting was a PAIN! House Shifting is a SUPER PAIN!! Packing never seems to end  I can't even Imagine Unpacking :-P
fear	tweets	Back at homes hmm.. i rly am going to miss my boo for 2 days like wtf
sadness	tweets	Another Friday night in. Man being skint is rubbish.
fear	tweets	Hmm, $25 to see the Decemberists, but I have to go to Raleigh on a work night... or $95 for cheap seats to the Bolshoi? Probably neither
sadness	tweets	@realdawnsummers haha, because I'm at &quot;work&quot; and can't read anything
fear	tweets	Yes we had four gas leaks in our house in the 3 yrs we lived here- that's what u get for buyin an old house
fear	tweets	@savvybride  That's no good. I'm sorry
fear	tweets	not certain if it's good to be back home or not.  dropping of car rental now though
fear	tweets	yes! its finally friday, and im stuck doing projects
sadness	tweets	I knew Listening to Miley cyrus In The morning was a bad idea!
sadness	tweets	omg maddie in holby is dead. Gutted. loved Nadine lewington and really wanted Maddie and Clifford to get together
sadness	tweets	@zacofficial  i don't have twitter on my phone, it's sad
sadness	tweets	Awww my daddy! Got in a car accident! Pray for him! He's shook'n up a lil!
sadness	tweets	Just found out one of my coworkers that I actually like is leaving.
fear	tweets	i REALLY hope my parents don't make me stay home for being sick
fear	tweets	@xShefSx omg my ID aint come back yet  im sooo worried it best be bk by next week or il screamm!!! lmao and yeah u choose! its ur bday x
fear	tweets	@CocaBeenSlinky sorry  LOL
sadness	tweets	i wish i was outside  thats the only thing thats gonna kill me about work all day, everyday during the summer.
sadness	tweets	it was actually so hot today ..the sun has got his hat on . every one has got a tan except me
fear	tweets	Ugh.. apparantly doc authorized my refills on tuesday (and ready to be picked up), but the order status online still says waiting review.
sadness	tweets	@Avas_Writer aww no which one?
sadness	tweets	@mileycyrus sorryyy milerz that i can't vote i would love to vote but it doesn't works i'm sad  and very frustraded  :@ :@ --__--
fear	tweets	Is sad when people's phones are dead
fear	tweets	On my way to LA. Running a little bit late
fear	tweets	@RetroRewind That is the 3rd NKOTB contest that Canadians can't enter   The overseas fans have theirs now!  It's bound to be our turn!
sadness	tweets	I wont be taking my test until 06/27/09
fear	tweets	i keep reading contracts as cataracts... Someone should bring me panera
sadness	tweets	@glennbeck My husband is loosing his GOVERMENT job due to downsizing-he is looking for a new job but can't find one in our small town
fear	tweets	@JinBeautiful so i'm screwed
fear	tweets	@iamdiddy  I love you and Day 26 but that video was questionable... can't say that I liked it
fear	tweets	SCHOOL IS FINALLY OVER NO MORE TEST OR WORK YES!!!!!!! But im gunna miss alot of ppl
fear	tweets	@ORANGESTOAPPLES Well, don't point and laugh if I mess up or die of nervousness.
fear	tweets	after a great day at work with the kids, disappointment with my roof decal
fear	tweets	@anotorias lol what bothers me is that i'm messing with my metabolism   drinking lots of water pretending its different food, Mmmm grapes!
sadness	tweets	@sky14kemea Yea, us 3 and Max @jenrolton Poor Trivun
sadness	tweets	Gonna miss my gurl while shes on her honeymoon
sadness	tweets	Have somebody installed vCenter Server 4 on Windows 2008 x64 w SP2?  SP2 is not in the compability matrix
fear	tweets	I don't feel so good after eating all that food  ugh.
sadness	tweets	So hyped about E3. I wish I could go...
fear	tweets	@Jen_Walker21 sadly no, I'll be going to the killumbus show. I really want to but no one wants to drive me there
fear	tweets	@Thorney88 i have tried Bulmers Pear Cider - Yuk and it made me bad for a few days!!
fear	tweets	@rawritsria just got a text by now the one on michigan is empty, dont know about state street yet
sadness	tweets	ouuuuuuuuuchhhhhhhh, still hurting from the Barca spanking
sadness	tweets	@latinamarie She's the ruddy manageress - 2nd bad job from her. I can never find a good place beyond 1 or 2 cuts
fear	tweets	http://bit.ly/UnRyF  I want this, but...
sadness	tweets	@BoHeMyth: Very interested. However, low carbs for the next month means no beer for me
fear	tweets	hasn't had time to go on twitter since working full time!
sadness	tweets	fun times. just broke my usb stick.. like literally broke it..
fear	tweets	@ilyChrisBreezy lol awww lol i will i can't do it now lol cauz i have to work  but i will make one and tell you love you 2 oxoxoteambreezy
sadness	tweets	i neeeeed plans. no one can hang out tomorrow. booo.
fear	tweets	oh no noisy family who live next door are back from holiday  there goes my peace and quiet
fear	tweets	OMG  I BROKE DOWN AND HAD PIZZA BECAUSE I WAS STRESSED OUT  @Thefatboys @theunclelouie @princemarkiedee you mad at me?
fear	tweets	@dabusStop thats terrible  I enjoy being with you every minute!
sadness	tweets	god... im suffering greatly... having no hair + sitting in blazing sunshine = v v bad sunburn
sadness	tweets	haha aww ok now back to bionomial expansion  ugh! joy
fear	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx: I live in germany, it costs a lot too!  I wish you could follow me anyway..
sadness	tweets	@Jennifalconer would like to swap...i'm sitting with 3 grumpies
fear	tweets	@amandalaur i know right, that's so weak  but the g1 seems most like the sk i think. latonya is lamesauce, just call her that from now on
fear	tweets	@iViva I have trouble updating!!!
sadness	tweets	@Kellz95 is making cupcakes and says i can't have any  kelli, you're a bad sister.
fear	tweets	@crystalchappell &quot;we'll do lunch&quot;  uhh...indoors though we are having a thunderstorm rolling in
fear	tweets	I wish I could get my nails done  stupid job
sadness	tweets	Nice days like this make me miss Alki
sadness	tweets	@Kenzonian Yes I do! And I'm still almost at my Gmail storage ceiling! ARGH! I am being FORCED to delete stuff.... or buy more space.
fear	tweets	just threw up
fear	tweets	Twitter has spoiled all the fun. Frustratingly slow!!  couldnt even bid properly!
sadness	tweets	mom just woke me u[p and i am so mad i was dreaming about  shoes  she whants me to go to the river it is so stupid
sadness	tweets	@brran1 Hey you! Did you ever pre-order your Sims 3? I'm so sad Im too poor to get it right now
fear	tweets	Working.  I can't wait till 4:30. Funeral on monday.
sadness	tweets	I hate car places  &lt;Jx&gt;
fear	tweets	needed my semi-gay best friend to go shoe shopping with me tonight. Alas he is nowhere to be found.
fear	tweets	Had a little fight with My Best Friend   What should I Do?!?
fear	tweets	I have softball
sadness	tweets	@Just_Cal Work or...(hehe mind in the gutter)! I'm sittin here doin this student loan thing.
fear	tweets	ugh, not sure i have the patience or remaining intelligence at this point in the day (week?) to refactor and rewrite this package of code
fear	tweets	@officialjman thanks for wishing me luck a couple of weeks ago on getting into a higher choir, but i didn't make it
fear	tweets	I seriously need to find out why my laptop sometimes gets so hot. BBL after errands &amp; pricing &quot;comp fixes&quot;. Not many places left 4 that.
fear	tweets	When someone edit your designs is called plagiarism right??, but what can you do??, I'm tired, exhausted and dissapointed
fear	tweets	@roflcopterfail except the fact that it's been raining since Wednesday, and not supposed to stop till Monday. ew.
sadness	tweets	So disapointed,good Evans,  they sound really bad, so out of tune  #britainsgottalent
sadness	tweets	@tmg25 i tried to help
sadness	tweets	soo sick. i hate my life
fear	tweets	@TerriZSoloCEO and here I didn't think you had a cruel bone in your body ... torturing me with sunshine...hmph
sadness	tweets	@omgamandanicole i dedicated that song to my VW when i sold it
sadness	tweets	Well - looks like Hurdle is out.
fear	tweets	@MissLaura317 Aww internet  But yeah .. he did say he wanted applause after every take he did. Careful what you ask for lol. AHH *twitch*
sadness	tweets	unopened pack of goat cheese starin me in the face. starving, din not til 6
fear	tweets	Hate fighting
sadness	tweets	Editing video in the van. I'm a little hungry and depressed that I didn't see Up yet.
fear	tweets	@DutchRaymond gay marriage isn't legal everywhere here.
fear	tweets	@pokeyp I saw that you were calling but cannot answer as I'm in the second hour of a phone convo with my mom and she won't stop talking
sadness	tweets	Friday Night and working
fear	tweets	@darkmindedsith Damn it. I can't film it. Nevermind
sadness	tweets	@nkeathley tried to join the chat but the site would not let me sign in
fear	tweets	getting sick  cough. cough.
sadness	tweets	Just lost Internet.  And I was in a raid for 25 OS.
fear	tweets	Whew! I literally shopped till I dropped....and sprained my ankle.  Ugh...do you see the sacrifices I make for you??
fear	tweets	Im @ the dentist  ....scary people here...
fear	tweets	@Ms_AliceV No  None in the house and I'm not sure i should drive to the coffee stand. It's worse than I thought it would be.
fear	tweets	@LisaTalkingTots So sorry to hear your terrible news   Thinking of you all x
sadness	tweets	Comp. Mental Health wouldn't take me. Samuel Rogers center in the city gave me appt. On June 8th. I have 2 days worth of pills left  &lt; ...
fear	tweets	NO MORE MSHS!!!!!!!! Gotta go to work...too tired
sadness	tweets	@KiwiiKink was it for the vma's? i guess so.. also wanna go to london in june for demi lovato concert, but no one's going with me
fear	tweets	@saydiemason Well i don't what we should do
fear	tweets	Ok. Over exagerrated. Twitter is not to bad.... I guess.
sadness	tweets	is having a profitable day!  Looking forward to Sunday...gonna be a great day -- sad, too, because it's the 5th graders last day!
sadness	tweets	@Kelly_StrayCat I sorry!!  Me no like when people I like don't feel well. Your tummy?
fear	tweets	Is Watching Britains Got Talent, &amp; Is biting her nails. Please don't come off black nail varnish
sadness	tweets	still freakin out about missing the game!!!  #jonasnewsongs
sadness	tweets	Mower shopping
fear	tweets	@jerricklim Well, perhaps that's because I don't find my life fabulous
sadness	tweets	I sometimes feel like the only person in the world without an iphone
sadness	tweets	I burnt my arm.  (just thought you should know)
sadness	tweets	twitter is trippin right now with my pic
fear	tweets	i can't find my woody and buzz toys  but i've got my bullseye teddy! @tommcfly do you have toy story toys? 8-)
fear	tweets	I'm stuffed n can't move
fear	tweets	hates broken promises.  http://plurk.com/p/x2l3e
fear	tweets	@smdarie Ahhh I miss you!! I had DQ the other night without you...it broke my heart a bit
fear	tweets	Kam just called.  She, Emmy &amp; Laloo went to the Barn.  On their way back now and Keltin is in atomic meltdown mode.  That's a LONG drive
fear	tweets	I feel bad for John and Kate. And the 8.
sadness	tweets	@JeremyBeguhn have fun without meee.  i'm going to missss youu
fear	tweets	@BingTheCherry he's on zul'jin (i think that's how you spell it) so i doubt they'll ever meet
sadness	tweets	My Blackberry's got a fatty (battery)  guess we're kinda in the same boat huh @laurensanchez ?
sadness	tweets	Gotta work.  Lonely weekend ahead.
fear	tweets	I don't want to go to the 3-hour lecture
sadness	tweets	@LiveFreeT because your mean to me and it makes me sad!
fear	tweets	Auto uit de running... One down, one yet to build
sadness	tweets	i didnt get paid this week  roll on tuesday
fear	tweets	Hours of refusal upon realisation that tomorrow's #Morrissey gig at Brixton is postponed.   Only been looking fwd to that for 6 monthsish
fear	tweets	after mad calls..txt..fb msgs my homie finally calls me back I was so worried..I think I care far 2 much..but if anything happened 2 them
fear	tweets	Frak. I like sunshine, but I do NOT like heat headaches  shame, because today was lovely otherwise.
fear	tweets	When it rains it pours. Life sucks
sadness	tweets	@iheartreading hey sorry i just got the tweet about the puppy... and someone already got it
fear	tweets	I don't know what im doing :S
fear	tweets	is wondering what happened to all those froggies at the potato farm!
fear	tweets	man iCant send love on Bebo. Cuz im on Skoo Comps. UGH! thiss sucks.
fear	tweets	@DionneSouth but they weren't that good  I see the cuteness factor getting them through though. #bgt
fear	tweets	@danger_skies  cus it all got too much attention in the end, shes embarrased and i think it just got outta hand a bit poor girl  xX
sadness	tweets	I'm dreading hearing even worse news tonight
sadness	tweets	SEe waT I Mean bOuT FoLL0w fRiiDaYs... It'S cALLed LoSe f0LloWeRs FridAy... smH
fear	tweets	Hey, @jonaknt I'll be in sa then  maybe if we cross highways we can grab lunch?
fear	tweets	But ... but ... who will produce the next Starsailor record?
fear	tweets	@tdwnds1 No problem. At least look on the floor. We won't see the banana skin in our brains ... I step on it once, almost got killed
fear	tweets	I have when my plans are messed up. Now i'm stuck at home
sadness	tweets	In Seattle Washington....im SOOOOO hungry&amp;i miss alaska
sadness	tweets	@ottosdaughter sorry to hear that
fear	tweets	@tommcfly tweet me, have a convo i will tell you whats happening in BGT!did you watch the final of lost? i was like noo dont end it there
fear	tweets	My baby is no longer a Kindergartener...   Today was her last day.
sadness	tweets	FJGKFLD;'Sdh WHY AM I NOT AT HOMETOWN DAYS WITH MY FRIENDS.
sadness	tweets	@ZeenaBoBeena im sorry. I fail.
fear	tweets	Doh! I was hoping to get a book for the missus but exclusive books are closed
fear	tweets	-- I won't feel guilty and like I should be revising stuff after today, haha
fear	tweets	car broken probably for good
fear	tweets	Doctor's appointment at 4:30 because my blood pressure is high. Really?! Already?!
sadness	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx MANDY!!!  IT WON'T LET ME VOTE  I WANT HER TO WIN BUT I CAN'T HELP, I AM GONNA JUMP OFF A BRIDGE (KIDDING) BUT THIS SUX
fear	tweets	@miabatsoy awww...i hope you'd be well na sis....it's so disgusting to be sick  better take the rest that you need...charge up...mwah!
fear	tweets	Oh..Summer begins..yay..  The fighting, Crying and stress has started with the kids..It's only been 3 hrs since they got out.
fear	tweets	@tommcfly maybe you could go outside to meet some fans?  im not even from sao paulo, im from rio, but.. idk, just saying :/
fear	tweets	fire and rain by james taylor fits the style i need for my SA audition perfectly, but i can't find a karaoke track in a high enough key
fear	tweets	@bridgers i have one too
sadness	tweets	@CASHRIC I MISS U CEDDY
fear	tweets	I need to get my act together. At the mall again instead of studying
fear	tweets	I want some cookies.
sadness	tweets	So bored..need friends
fear	tweets	@penflare  tell me about it
fear	tweets	my girlies @VeeVeeBOMBSHELL &amp; @ReeseCromwell r leavin me today  Vanessa, I'll c u when u'r black *I mean back and Reese, I'll c u Sunday
fear	tweets	@MommaSalty Aw, sorry about your cat   No worries about the blankets, I was just wondering, I'm in no rush, take your time!
sadness	tweets	Its raning!!! -_- really bad
sadness	tweets	Of course it rains five minutes after i finish watering the flowers. It took me half an hour to water all of them too.
sadness	tweets	Hummmmm..... ohh  i miss you so much!!! realy, but i hope you have a nice friends, like us :]
fear	tweets	Yum chocolate sorbet! She barely even shared  http://twitpic.com/67azl
sadness	tweets	ugh, i was so hungry i scarfed my lunch before i even thought to take a pic.   #feastfriday
fear	tweets	@stephenfry Tinkered with open-source Virtualbox &amp;Win7 yet? Would've loved to have seen you @ Hay. Always unfortunate timing for students
fear	tweets	Last Tonight Show with Jay Leno Tonight!
sadness	tweets	No show tonight  No plans. Ughhhh.
sadness	tweets	Off to take a math quiz...on a friday....booo
sadness	tweets	@Noufah aaaah I swear I took it by mistake  it was somehow attached with the charger -_- apparently it needed break from U huh!
fear	tweets	ahhh i think my legs are burnt  they hurt
fear	tweets	I think I messed up my back, its been like this all day
fear	tweets	I missed the @retrorewind announcement   Something about being flow out for a concert? Can anyone fill me in?
sadness	tweets	@ThatKadyGirl every day of my life lately.    i feel ya girl &lt;3
fear	tweets	Phew long day and i havent gotten to work yet
sadness	tweets	i want to see my bud mel  miss hur loads
fear	tweets	@tommcfly say hi to me, i'm depressed cause i cant see you
fear	tweets	traveling to L.a today to see grandpa in hospital..Yet another road block to cross fro my family
fear	tweets	@jeremyfritsche your understanding would require taking paragraph 3 out of context. But para5 COULD lead to opting out of EVERY class.
fear	tweets	A sweltering afternoon no wonder the creepy, slithering snakes are heading to the creek. The nasty things can swim! Frightening detail!
fear	tweets	Just found about ten typos in one story in the Plain Dealer, including one run on sentence. It happens more and more these days
fear	tweets	@Levanah_Gates am also gutted...the end is nigh  x
sadness	tweets	@mattdavey2 not happy
fear	tweets	Oh dear god, going to have to buy a Mac and Pro-Tools, I think my darling edit suite is soon to be filled with Prince Of Persia Movie
fear	tweets	i feel really sick, and my teeth still hurt.  fml.
sadness	tweets	@leslie_pearlman  mow love mow
sadness	tweets	@veronica78 Oh noooo that sucks  Did you reschedule for another show?
sadness	tweets	just spent the day with Bridget and a small thing that got wind and farted a lot - oh yeah, her baby! Now slightly broody!
fear	tweets	Getting ready for a long weekend of work..friday Saturday and Sunday
sadness	tweets	I wish I was going to see @patmaine @johnmaine @garrettmaine @jaredmaine @kennedymaine today!! I'm sad I dont
sadness	tweets	traveling to L.a to see my grandpa in the hospital...another road block for my family to cross....
sadness	tweets	@Dtballa2322 I want to Forgive and Forget this! Please and I dont like him I promise I am going to live without drama for now!So Please
fear	tweets	HOMELESS afterJune 1st.......
sadness	tweets	@Anjeebaby Snap. I'm the same with any reality show. Watch the first and I'm hooked   Very sad
fear	tweets	sad that school is over gonna miss all my friends and teachers
fear	tweets	We will be changing our name again  Please stay tuned and follow our new page once Ophelia barks up a new name for http://dog-wuh.com thx!
fear	tweets	@Martysixnine  How vile are people, they have to remove things that have a value
sadness	tweets	No one is at the tesla dealership
fear	tweets	Me and my sister is listening to goodbye my almost lover by a fine frenzy. That was me and scarletts song. Makes me sad.
fear	tweets	@CaitiCaitlin I know but unfortunately I'm one of the fifteen bazillions of Americans without health insurance.  awesome
fear	tweets	Good! luck you! I want new shoes  Ly x
fear	tweets	I buy the team Zotz and they decide to roast me.
fear	tweets	@BeansOnToasted NOOOOO I hate traffic
sadness	tweets	Stuck at work! Stuck at work! I'm hungry.
fear	tweets	Damn... Why does it take so long to install SBS2008?!
sadness	tweets	Watching Thomas The Train Engine makes me miss George Carlin
fear	tweets	@bjcash AHhh FCUKKK...i missed out AGAIN  You must fill me in with the deetZ...see you tonight?!?!!
fear	tweets	@monkeymoosh Happened to me the other day.  Was wearing a necklace that made a white spot on my chest.
fear	tweets	Very annoyed by my braces. Cheek is all cut up and can't eat
sadness	tweets	Why is it that &quot;shipping &amp; handleing&quot; are soooo expensive??? It is more than 50% of my entire order! Not ordering yet.
fear	tweets	Just fell asleep for 2 &amp; 1/2 hours so missed both chances for first-look Hollyoaks, ugh
fear	tweets	@jennifalconer I haven't heard Greg before I'm scared , I've heard he's rather freaky  x
fear	tweets	@cln0103    hope all is ok.
fear	tweets	@punkpolkadots ya i suppose so...wish i cud hv thm bk
fear	tweets	healthy food is NOT helping my hangover
fear	tweets	Aww man. @Wired arrived. How-To Guide-less
fear	tweets	@KaarinE Me too I need the sudden urge to do it. Missing the Diplomat title
sadness	tweets	Wishing I could go with @boulderdiaries to SoCo to go climb, instead I'm stuck at work all weekend
fear	tweets	@KMC1121 lol... im going to log off for about an hr lolz b4 I lose more followers  keep the #NOFAKERY movement going!
fear	tweets	@minneappler I'm all out of life preservers, sorry   But if it's any consolation, you're in for something really special tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	lunch break's over, going back to work....
fear	tweets	@rachaelblogs Good for you Rachel.  I have nowt
sadness	tweets	MediaTemple (mt) has awful FTP service
fear	tweets	@keylahtia yeah its goin to vmail now.. I CALLED it while i was in the store.. no luck
fear	tweets	@bradleemeredith Awwwww, i'm sorry
fear	tweets	@lell I live here and I don't see all these great things
fear	tweets	a bit worried...
fear	tweets	I have one less follower  That makes me sad and I feel like my life is dull and uninteresting.
fear	tweets	@Anjeebaby @aileenwilliams Please don't get me watching BB too
fear	tweets	My 89 year old grandma in Chicago is having emergency surgery today....
sadness	tweets	wtf come i need this day to go by
sadness	tweets	Ooh hayfever has struck..thought I was going to avoid it this year but nooo!  Remedies anyone...?
sadness	tweets	: What a let down! No MRI today, neurosurgeon didn't order it--which means we have to come back to OkC soon &amp; we no nothing new
fear	tweets	is still pretty depressed about losing her hello kitty necklace
sadness	tweets	Okay gots to go and now for the first time since it started will miss the Block Party on @retrorewind
sadness	tweets	watching Army Wives and it always makes me cry
fear	tweets	I'm getting me &amp; my family ready for Kaylee's graduation! It's gonna make me so sad.
fear	tweets	@capcomms It was BuckFast. Brain just went blank
fear	tweets	@thankthatstar i have to tell you that i accidentally screwed up the layout of the lautner_daily community
fear	tweets	@AskCarrieLee CVS is that like a genetic brand?Poor you,my hubby gets bad allergies..no fun!
fear	tweets	@barmak9 Shiraz event was in an 'anti-bahai' center.not in a mosque or in election campaign.Sadly children wr involved in zahedan
sadness	tweets	I'm german i think i should be able to go to germany for free whenever i want...plz
fear	tweets	Still can't find my id and is going to be very VERY upset if I can't go out with my deltas tonight
fear	tweets	@tommcfly you and the guys should come down here, we are fucking freezing out here!
sadness	tweets	It`s such a romantic novel!! I cried in the end  Now I`m going to bed. I`m so tired.
fear	tweets	omfg. one of the worst days ever!
fear	tweets	no viewers  and and @steff_blehh, did you block me on skype?
fear	tweets	What happened to the weather??
sadness	tweets	Not happy
fear	tweets	@tobiefysh I really haven't got the hang of these hash tags have I?
sadness	tweets	@JhonenV I need horror to be lovecraftian actually, not enough weird horror movies.
fear	tweets	Looks like it's going to be a upset for Venus
sadness	tweets	the BEST day ever. I met the greatest 10 year olds. but i will never see them again.. AHH. i'll miss them (i saw them 1 hour xD) SAD
fear	tweets	@FionaKyle didn't have my camera with me  totally regretting it now!
fear	tweets	Ummm. My kid just said &quot;fucker&quot; .. Like minutes before his gparents are due to show. Everyone knows it's his mom with the potty mouth
sadness	tweets	finally friday , but still grounded till next thursday    -- stereos = life &lt;333
fear	tweets	Internet, you were so fast! And now you are so slow! Where did the fast connection go?
fear	tweets	needs to get over this fever grrrrr....
sadness	tweets	@jennafletch at freddies having a cotch and LADYHAWKE is here, just missing you my bajan beauty
sadness	tweets	still no eat. still in office. and now i get sick throat 3 days before i leave for an air condition throat killing tour bus
sadness	tweets	@Leod_UK Argh Twitter didnt post my replies and tweets for ages  Aint up to much just enjoying the sun!
sadness	tweets	@KristinDaMama I work for Disney...not all it's cracked up ta be.
fear	tweets	Every pair of jeans I own nowadays is very tight.  I think mah butt gettin big (oh!)
sadness	tweets	@roseCHARLOTTE oh my gosh!!! Tomorrow AS WELL!!!????!!!?!?!? God you're lucky, I might have to put it off for yet ANOTHER week
fear	tweets	Radio Royals AM Transmitter has packed up today... not good   Anyone got a spare in your shed... lol
sadness	tweets	Off to the bank
fear	tweets	@TeeRibbzz ok Mr. Man help me out with some followers.....  PLEASEEEEEEEE
fear	tweets	1 week post my&quot;horrible, traumatic jumping cholla accident.&quot;-cholla's next dirty trick:pieces are starting to emerge from my hand! Ouch!
sadness	tweets	im not happy   my ipod or laptop dont know whih but one has decided to refuse to let me sync my songs :'( how can i live without it :/
sadness	tweets	fell down while holdin kales hand today...I hurt my foot &amp; he bruised his forehead  im such a klutz!
sadness	tweets	@rpulse I clicked on the Check out pictures of Angelina and it went to a spam site about ordering checks .. go figure
fear	tweets	35 hours in the sun=rash
fear	tweets	@Mr_Kimbalicious Lol! I was just walking  I think its all the polish I used while cleaning earlier, its made the floor slippery!
fear	tweets	home from work today.....son is sick
sadness	tweets	Lobster dinner with MBA folks tonight, but no terasse, pouring rain in Mtl...
sadness	tweets	@gailmoscoso oo noo thats not good
fear	tweets	the weekend is about to begin! Got an idea for a project that I think would be cool -- just not sure I've got the time for it right now.
sadness	tweets	feeling bad for Daisy, she cries in every episode       i watch waaaaay too much tv
sadness	tweets	I lost a follower  oh well probably one of those mute ones anyway.
sadness	tweets	I've been dead the past 2 days...the flu sucks
fear	tweets	urban think fail. chai latte is not good there
sadness	tweets	@skinnermike I told that joke onstage at Butlins in 1991. One person laughed. Scarred for life at 8
fear	tweets	@melissa_beery Yeah little rough this morning but more tonight, and tomorrow night if all goes as planned. Caloric intake off the charts
fear	tweets	back from dinner w. my family. i'm not meeting christine anymore  sunny weather tomorrow and a day out &amp; about. i want red bull!
fear	tweets	@Bwadoo that doesnt look good at all.
fear	tweets	is gaining weight.  rather
fear	tweets	I lost my artistic abilities
fear	tweets	My jeans that were once two inches too long are now about five inches too long. Holy cow, am I getting shorter?!?
fear	tweets	I miss my 8703
fear	tweets	@Emma300 Guess I'd better look out for a new best friend once those VIP tickets have been used! You won't want me anymore!
fear	tweets	shout out to all the people goin to prom &amp; iish &quot;damn i kinda miss high school&quot;
fear	tweets	Back from a very boring 20-20 cricket match in Canterbury. It's supposed to be big hitting, but there was only one 6. Shame
fear	tweets	I'm so sad that Cage on Daisy of Love went home this week  him crying made me tear up a bit..
sadness	tweets	@AsaCavalli wish I was there wit you. Some other friend of mine r down there as well.  This weekend I'll be working
fear	tweets	puppy I wanted was adopted yesterday  I guess my dogs don't get a little brother anytime soon. but at least he isn't in a shelter now
fear	tweets	If you followed us recently, PLEASE dont be offended that we haven't followed back. We hit our limit.   Hopefully we will be free soon.
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus http://twitpic.com/5kahh - omg i read Night in english class! so sad
fear	tweets	never trust someone else's battery operated power tools when you're in a hurry
sadness	tweets	Oh I'm really tired of these migraines! #Endometriosis &amp; #Fibromyalgia &amp; #Migraines &amp; sleep probs just compoundin ea other since surgery
sadness	tweets	@BIOSShadow I'm not going, sadly.  Maybe next year, eh?
fear	tweets	my sunburn hurts
fear	tweets	@tommcfly say a hi to me tom  please please
fear	tweets	Nobody's home tonight. Except me. Alone. Sigh. Oh how I wish @MysteriousLover was here
sadness	tweets	not feeling too great today
sadness	tweets	@dutchcowboys Huh... PR from 5 to 2..?
fear	tweets	where is my melly belly when i need her ?
fear	tweets	@ my sisters crying my eyes out, hubby called from Iraq, spoke for n2 minutes heard popping sounds in the background and call dropped.
sadness	tweets	@tommcfly hey tom, i'm happy that you're enjoying brazil, but i'm sad cuz i'm not goin to see you in your show
fear	tweets	@brookeburke i found out that there's sushi with fake crab meat and it's not good for you
fear	tweets	Just home from work!!!!! Need to continue packing. Raerae is gone for the weekend.   Mya and I are hanging out
fear	tweets	My graduation day... And i feel like a failure...
fear	tweets	@Littleradge shit your in trouble now  why don't you try with one of those companys that buys your house for you
sadness	tweets	i wish mum hadn't spent forever talking to me so i could call my kiera later &gt;.&lt;. i don't have much time left now though
fear	tweets	@ddeeaannnnaa89 already did... index finger, left hand... still bleeding, hurts pretty bad. I hate being clumsy
sadness	tweets	Has work very, very soon. Way too soon!
fear	tweets	@shadowcall I'm sorry to hear that.
sadness	tweets	@jgooden When you put it that way... it doesn't make much sense, does it?    ROTFL!!
sadness	tweets	Listening to Hey Zulu - Red n' Meth. Sux to be at work right now
sadness	tweets	I've experienced apathy over empathy in customer service situations too many times recently.
sadness	tweets	@RaptorsForum Sigh... you know I am...
fear	tweets	@LindseyJaffe Loved the shoutout on TweetHampton, congrats!! Hope you're feeling better, i missed you last weekend
sadness	tweets	Missed the UPS guy again! Ugh so sad  But i got some cool stuff today that i'm super excited about! And looking forward to tonight too
fear	tweets	ugh i need a job but no one is hiring
fear	tweets	oh my gosh  this is the hardest decision of my life! who do i chose? Jonas or Green Day,ugh
fear	tweets	I ran out of white and yellow oil paint   I may have to add &quot;Utrecht run&quot; to my list.
fear	tweets	Its not looking too good outside  if this continues, i feel a movie night coming on...
sadness	tweets	@CreationsWHeart Ive been wanting 2 but will be gone 4 2 mo. &amp; have to close my shops!
sadness	tweets	Finally feels like a nice summer day, and I'm feeling sick
fear	tweets	walking back 2 wk. Its a beautiful day. had 2 njoy it b4 it rains
sadness	tweets	found a swing set for sale 2 blocks from home, super cheap. I want it 4 my kids but no one is answering the phone # listed
fear	tweets	@Beadz2Pleaz I think I might get some of that today.  My throat is killing me! It feels like it's in my lungs
sadness	tweets	I miss Heroes already  Come one fall!
fear	tweets	@itsjustgoldie Why are you insulting me? What did I do to you?
fear	tweets	Can't believe those idiots buzzed out the juggler.
sadness	tweets	All my spare time seems 'twill be spent doing homework this weekend.
fear	tweets	3 tweeets {:    FGS tweekdeckkk hates me  -cryyyy
fear	tweets	Poor Lil J-Man has a fever. I can't wait to go home and hold the little man!
sadness	tweets	I'm feeling so frustrated...I just can't get things to work!!
fear	tweets	I fat-fingered the Coke machine, so I am drinking a Diet Pepsi instead of a Diet Dr. Pepper.   I wish the machine used error correction!
fear	tweets	Done with the Missourian for the day. No call back from Sturtz...
sadness	tweets	Ewwwy. Just did campus cleanup for community service.
sadness	tweets	@gfalcone601 that little girl on BGT! how sad! i cried  lol xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
sadness	tweets	@NathalieCaron I ended up not going because my left knee is killing me.  I think I pushed myself too much yesterday
fear	tweets	SMH!!!! Im sick with this bug that's going around..Almost everyone I know is sick, including me...
fear	tweets	@H0TCOMMODITY thanks, u 2!!! Idk if Im going or not... I don't feel like getting all dress up and doing my hair!!!  LOL
sadness	tweets	Please don't vote for her out of sympathy!  #BGT
fear	tweets	awwww bless her  she needs another chance.
sadness	tweets	aw that wee lassie made me cry  tears streamin doon ma face lol thats a wee shame x
fear	tweets	My beautiful lil cousin @SjFindlator is going to prom today...SAD  I can't be there..but I know shes gonna look BEAUTIFUL as always...
fear	tweets	@ArsenalSarah she lookd soo freaked out!!poor wee thing
sadness	tweets	Sitting watching britain's got f all talent, but have watched a small girl cry and it's sad
fear	tweets	Stupid sun i  actually have to work now
fear	tweets	Now Im crying....  Poor thing..
fear	tweets	Ouch just burned myself making soup for nico...
fear	tweets	@brenna_boo jealous  can you add 'and I really wish nicole was here..but we all know what she's really doing' to that tweet?
fear	tweets	@zanzoon omg!! I saw something about a flood in your area on the news... be careful zaina
fear	tweets	aww i can't believe that wee girl on bgt was crying, it was so sad
fear	tweets	@dylanxtra my fly? but but but he was driving me insane  aw you made me feel bad now
sadness	tweets	Bless the little girl on BGT!
fear	tweets	Aww Holly Steel ... Dont cry
fear	tweets	@sheagunther Damn, I'd be interested in working with Care2, but I don't live in SF anymore
fear	tweets	@shoesandbooks Lucky you I have to wear a name tag  I feel like x-mass tree when I work Tag, Keys cliped on belt and ad's aroud my neck
sadness	tweets	@jennwadsworth So sad that schools have to close.
fear	tweets	@rocked nope i have a fifth generation ipod classic  it likes to be dumb
fear	tweets	@djgraham I think @darkmonkey has found it (http://bit.ly/3pj876 , but I can't play it
sadness	tweets	@Jennifalconer how tough was that, just wanted to hug her like my own
fear	tweets	Ahhh feel sorry for that little girl  can't watch her crying xx
sadness	tweets	phone is still blocked only my fav 5 can cll me
fear	tweets	is sick, a congested forehead (its possible) and chest. Achy eyes and back, all I wanna do is sleep the weekend away!
fear	tweets	@MorningToast Once James Cameron touches something and revolutionizes it... someone else comes along and fucks it up
sadness	tweets	@tyefighter I had to sell guitar hero with ps3 to fund splitting with ex
fear	tweets	anyone have a verizon fone i can borrow for the mean time while i get my replacement?
fear	tweets	Trying to figure out how to personalize my downloaded Wordpress blog!  Not as easy as I was hoping   Any suggestions?
fear	tweets	i got in a fight with ryan. now hes like crying and im just dead inside. sigggh
fear	tweets	@datachick That version is not compatible with Vista.
sadness	tweets	@gfalcone601 ino :O i was near crying for her  sometimes i forget that its actually live tv =/ .....am i talkin about the sme thing?:Sxxxx
sadness	tweets	@Abbyluvsaj nice! I wish twitter would tile mine
fear	tweets	Yikes. That poor girl on BGT. That was quite hard to watch
fear	tweets	Cramps . . .
sadness	tweets	ughhh! this is the third bottle of foundation I've broken
fear	tweets	First Natalie and now little Holly. This is mean
fear	tweets	aww i feel so bad for Holly
fear	tweets	why is everyones tweets about britains got talent?! i feel left out
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso  i can't call you im from Mexico and i don't know the code
sadness	tweets	@kezzawezz i want 2 but i dinna hink it'll get shown in elgin n got nae1 2 go with(n)
fear	tweets	Somehow I have yet to accomplish a fucking thing.
fear	tweets	Wait... @DamonAndrew and @Uchenna3... Electrik Red or Richgirl?  I'm a sucker for the later
fear	tweets	@JEFFHARDYBRAND  Aww bless hope the phones okayy  x x
sadness	tweets	@Dorkus_ Well their not gonna fit her in with this big long advertisement
fear	tweets	@Soph_Ichigo She tried to carry on aswell, bless, I suppose maybe that's why kids shouldn't be in it?
fear	tweets	just because you're a superstar it doesn't mean you have to do that !
fear	tweets	@Trickiliz13 ohhh baby!!! PDGG! ahh! im missing it! ahhh  hehaheahaaaa
sadness	tweets	@decaydance --Nothing
sadness	tweets	@FTSKirstin im depressed like so baddddd.
sadness	tweets	@gfalcone601 Britain's Got Talent? Such a cute little girl. Feel so sorry for her!   Hope Simon finds the time! xx
sadness	tweets	@coollike  the cokies arnt real imaginary will hav to do mmmmmmmmmmmm cookie...
fear	tweets	shit got to go do the grocery.. I almost got no more food  snif snif...
fear	tweets	Awww that poor little girl on BGT
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 I know right  Poorpoor girl! It shows why they shouldn't put young people in competitions like this though (.....) -
fear	tweets	@icklewabbit OMG you aren't online. Shock horror.
fear	tweets	@shtoofi  i know the feeling, working so much sucks hardcore. we need to hang out soon
fear	tweets	Can't paint anymore because of the light
fear	tweets	@MandyPandy32  awww for me I just think she's tooo young or just not ready for it - tis painful to watch her so upset
sadness	tweets	No one is bringing snacks
sadness	tweets	ugh... dunno why im just not in the best of moods... how do i know if i have allergies? meh...
sadness	tweets	I want to join but i live in michigan
fear	tweets	wtf happened? i have no feed
fear	tweets	Omg ! BGT making me cry  . That wee girl  it's soo sad.
fear	tweets	@beingnobody aww that is sad
fear	tweets	#BGT Quite an awkward moment, poor girl  I hope she doesn't loose it again.
fear	tweets	My last full day of even day classes. I'm a little sad
sadness	tweets	The bunny is longing for the hoodie she left in the car   brrr....
sadness	tweets	It was going to happen one day but I so feel for the girl AND her mum
sadness	tweets	@0oMiriamo0 but i like the idea going to cinema, but monday....
fear	tweets	@Littleradge  I'm not even in your situation and now I'm sad. I'm sorry, that's really sucky.
fear	tweets	@casgetta what's wrong?
fear	tweets	Brian (cat) still hasn't shown up...I feel sad and sick, I'm afraid he's been eaten by something.    It doesn't look  good
sadness	tweets	@IMjustDaNNi Awww thats not fair to me. Now im a lil sad
fear	tweets	getting ready for work. boohoohoo i dont wanna go to work!
fear	tweets	@kaydub I am using iMovie 08 and it's still not bad. I am afraid to hear what is wrong with 09
sadness	tweets	@SOREALCRU its Gloomy in LA no sun  but its nice
sadness	tweets	Excitement: 8 new followers overnight. Sadness: 6 of them are ad bots.
sadness	tweets	@Mulla8285 Oh noooooo!!!      I'm so sorry!!  That sucks hard!
fear	tweets	@Slayer_89 I feel so sorry for her  hope she dnt cry 2nd time
fear	tweets	@redbloc whats twhirl? I've some work to be doing over the weekend thank god so I'm probably going to miss it red, sorry
sadness	tweets	@siggidori sorry, I'm creating a new comedy style &quot;bad joking&quot;
sadness	tweets	Omg i'm going to robinson with tyler wfm. And i freakin miss anthony  ugh today kinda sucks. Lex&lt;3
fear	tweets	@YAphilJ phil! I miss you gracin ya with your presence I haven't been on much  what's new?
fear	tweets	@nikkeekristen Yeah, it says that at the bottom  21+, and must be available to live there from Aug 19th to nov 2nd, roughly.
fear	tweets	@eBlondie I know...heartless souls
fear	tweets	@westlifebunny my days been aight! been cleaning mostly! went to mcds to check for hader toy..no luck  so i ate chickfila
fear	tweets	Work in that heat is horrible !
fear	tweets	@genejm29 I spoke too soon  Still a nice evening, but lots of broken cloud coming in from the south.
fear	tweets	Waiting for my cell phone to dry out.... it went swimming in bowl of water earlier
fear	tweets	Being unable to have booze on a Friday, indeed the entire weekend, actually hurts
fear	tweets	stressed beyond BELIEF. need a nap
fear	tweets	@davidcrow @cspin and I suppose, until we have more bike lanes, the roads aren't safe enough to pull your kids in bike buggies/trailers
fear	tweets	awww poor little girl on britains got talent
fear	tweets	Left poor fred!(boyfriend) in the alice in wonderland ride !  oops sorry fred! Argh!
fear	tweets	@hollie__ Aww bless her. She's one of my faves
fear	tweets	@Nahtuhlee Why no sn... o. yeah... Sad day.....
fear	tweets	too many meds. sleeepy sleeepy. I hate being sick
fear	tweets	sees the finish line disappearing in a plethora of emails!!!    WAH!
fear	tweets	@xxAnnaSxx oh I'm sorry for that. how old was your grandpa?
sadness	tweets	Plan for this evening: dinner, shopping for dress shirts, watching Up, going to bed. Plan for Saturday: Funeral for a friend...
fear	tweets	@gfalcone that made me cry  poor hollie xx
fear	tweets	#BGT That poor kid
fear	tweets	@KittyBuffieKat I know Buffie. I am sitting in my office instead of going to see Ms. Kane. Major bummer
fear	tweets	&quot;I think you should know this. He's going to break up with you. And I just had to tell you. I'm sorry. I know you love him.&quot;
fear	tweets	I need a new iPhone case but I am broke.
fear	tweets	is sad his wife is in Florida while he's sick in Lexington...
fear	tweets	@laurenosaur I would love to but sadly I have to work
fear	tweets	@starfish1211 - what! That's so horrible! I'll be praying. Poor thing.
sadness	tweets	@Jason_Inc Sounds good. I still like Fridays although it means for me that I have to go to work tomarrow
fear	tweets	no phone  i knew i should've charged it last night. SIGH
sadness	tweets	Not making good time, fucking Chicago traffic  - Photo: http://bkite.com/07XOh
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso  imnot aloud to call you!but i think your awesomeily!xx
fear	tweets	stuck in anniston, mississippi. because we got in a car accident :\ now im scared to drive  boy drivers ed should be fun this summer D:
fear	tweets	@robertpwilkins i should have left them alone. now they hurt  so no run and adter i fianly had a shower and washed the paint off ...
sadness	tweets	@robineccles Indeed I did get your song however am unable to listen.
fear	tweets	So off work about to do what I don't know I'm exhausted
sadness	tweets	@aaronhoskins I fucking miss that band so so much
fear	tweets	wish i was going to prom!!!!  oh well..going to go wish my girls good luck!! then going to good oll APPLEBEES!!! yumm
fear	tweets	@mattchung I GOT IT! i hope i get off of work in time for UP   want my job?
sadness	tweets	miss my hubby already!
fear	tweets	@wonky73 I'm just too busy these days to twitter or blog
sadness	tweets	@randiellen03 Nofair! My BK only had Uhura and Nero left.
fear	tweets	Bad day  The day you realize what mess you've put me through will be one of the happiest days of my life...
fear	tweets	Checking out Twitter Trying to find people I know....Unfortunately no one I know uses this website
fear	tweets	i can't find my tennis racket!!
sadness	tweets	needs water, paper towels and coke from the store but feels too sick to go get it
fear	tweets	so, why the hell are we going to school for 2 hours next monday and tuesday...dumb snow days and thier lame rules...my mom making me go
fear	tweets	I will be missing all of the 1st game tonight. Maybe i will get lucky and be home in time to watch part of the second.
fear	tweets	@suzziequeue  Yes thanks, its been great. Soooooo not looking forward to Monday
fear	tweets	four shots of novacaine in my mouth  my right cheek is totally numb, booo.
fear	tweets	Helping my cousin get ready for her 8th grade dance...she is growing up
fear	tweets	@justkappa hey there hunny! I have missed you. No calls..or emails...
sadness	tweets	@CagneyArtist ~ Sorry the response to my assistant job has already been filled. Please check back soon.  I'm sure she will not last long.
sadness	tweets	at home and sore knee
fear	tweets	- thats my hair guys. oh dip i gotta go!  on-ee two minits leff . . .
fear	tweets	@justinobey I forgot that was tonight! Was planning on heading down to the Cask, that might not be such a good idea
fear	tweets	@AngySTHB  Its not funny. The bump's not going away.
sadness	tweets	@TheRedHood its my going away partyyy @mandydiblasi 's.  you should come!
fear	tweets	@jmelencholy I'm having lunch already  ur a lil late buddy!
fear	tweets	grrr hate when i make careless mistakes on docs i give to my partner
fear	tweets	Omg, watching Hollie Steel's crying is so so painful  #bgt
sadness	tweets	@stoya limited web access? i thought europe was a lot more &quot;connected&quot; than we were. regardless, have fun, i've never been to europe
fear	tweets	Arghhhhhhhhh... i can't keep up with these TwitterBones peeps
fear	tweets	hey @mitchelmusso please reply me, i can't call you im from Mexico and i don't know the code  love you
sadness	tweets	@theroser i miss you SO much-o
fear	tweets	@whatabout_ken that sucks  If only I was there to hang out.
fear	tweets	@Kate_Butler I think/hope they might put an age limit on next year on the back of that  #bgt
fear	tweets	@noisemaker_ aww thats too bad you lost it though
fear	tweets	This is how much hair falls off everytime I shower. It's more sad than disgusting  http://yfrog.com/6p190aj
sadness	tweets	That poor girl on britains got talent, god love her  forgot the words and cried  but gets a second chance to perform again : ]
sadness	tweets	@brran1 that really sucks - I think I might cry if I skipped over anything important I don't have. Comps are getting to be disposable
sadness	tweets	aWWW Poor Holly
fear	tweets	@sherryaperez  aww mamas... I hope all is well. Get some rest beautiful! Muah! Holla.
sadness	tweets	@zhighlife people r weird
fear	tweets	sure miss Chick, tho...may he RIP!
fear	tweets	@mishacollins Yes it does. Please dont' go. If you die I will cry.. which normally leads to small animals getting harmed
fear	tweets	i am not feeling well so i am going to sleep now
fear	tweets	Just broke her dresser shes had since she was three
sadness	tweets	#justcause Summer Hours say our day ends at 1pm...doesn't mean I really get to leave at 1.
fear	tweets	Josette....where are you??   I looked across the pond, but you are nowhere to be found.
fear	tweets	Feeling tempted by high volume of jeeps to start an &quot;acura wave&quot;. Me too!
fear	tweets	Brought cat to specilist. May be ectopic uritors. Doing ultrasound. Surgury would be &gt;$2000. may need to take him back to humane society
fear	tweets	@MandyPandy32 I hope for her sake she does could it could get worse
fear	tweets	once again i've spend the day studying. SO BORED of studying but i still have 3 chapters to go
sadness	tweets	Time to take a astronomy test!
sadness	tweets	Getting used to getting up in the cold, but my asthma is paying for it.
fear	tweets	I hate sitting at the doctors office! They told me she is running an hour behind! AWESOME
sadness	tweets	Is actually workin the weekend...Not for it
sadness	tweets	Back from LAAANDAN.  Miss it already   check out my new giant purple bow and gold wing necklace. I &lt;3 TD http://tinyurl.com/m5y2mw
sadness	tweets	I miss my dog  r.i.p.Batman... Yeah, Batman (I really hope 'all dogs go to heaven' is true)
sadness	tweets	Wal-Mart orientation...it's work, but seriously...this sucks
fear	tweets	Ow. Sunburn hurts!
fear	tweets	Had a great day...but slightly depressed.  I don't know what I am going to do.
sadness	tweets	@joemuggs urgh...Grime, me no likey
sadness	tweets	Don't know if I can watch Holly again, breaks your heart
sadness	tweets	my favorite curling iron broke
fear	tweets	@XO_SUFI_XO yeah and when you are not working at paying jobs(volunteer/intern) the $ tends to disappear rather quickly...gotta slow down
fear	tweets	I have a stupid headache on my day off.
sadness	tweets	@VegasRex I wish I had time!! But its back to the airport already!
sadness	tweets	I've been nudged!!! not much going on lately umped games over the wknd and i took one to the pills
fear	tweets	@Aerinea ugh. it sounds like a busted cable box then  what time zone are you in?
fear	tweets	sorry @tayfo, i chili cheese dogged without you
fear	tweets	I think i pinched something in my neck.
fear	tweets	i wanna do something tonight, but that doesnt look very promising
fear	tweets	only an hour left with my iPod touch
sadness	tweets	Ya'll I turned off my device updates and I can't turn em back on! I feel so...so...out of touch
fear	tweets	My tattoo is ticklish
fear	tweets	@jessmitch fml...i have a good idea. we steal phil back and give my dumbass cousin those cats. jk. i'd feel bad
fear	tweets	being bored at home! Tomorrow i've got to work all day!
sadness	tweets	didnt cry at the end but was very sad to see the last episode of ER. man that was a good series.
sadness	tweets	@_Toki_ the wee girl started crying and her mum came on, was such a shame
fear	tweets	@TheEllenShow but i went out and bought some nail polish ellen
sadness	tweets	It's so sad  http://bit.ly/b8jTH  I love Kelly! &lt;3
fear	tweets	sitting in the car with my cat. he keeps meowing and i feel so bad
fear	tweets	Watching maxium 100. Why can't I look beautiful like those girls.
fear	tweets	so many things to think about when preparing for a marathon.  aye dios.
fear	tweets	Watching WALL-E.....it's so cute but sad
fear	tweets	I scratched my iPod
fear	tweets	@angisori It's not a reg gig yet, but hopefully it will be! Haven't done massage in a while actually
fear	tweets	AND I didn't get the job
sadness	tweets	@3RDegree09 man i still haven't seen that movie...too bad i'm at work
fear	tweets	hypervenilating cuz i just watched keith urban's new video!!!   trying to calm down and im realizing how far away august 13 is!!!!
sadness	tweets	@chevelleluv p.s. sorry about ur uncle
fear	tweets	@qcmartinez it's cloudy and damp over here too. i hope it doesnt rain for tonite's track meet  i'd hate to do interviews in the rain
fear	tweets	watching britains got talent, poor holly
fear	tweets	@michellecpa  ugh headache   i just wanna go home
fear	tweets	@Silkglove thats bad your been forced to watch that  there must be a helpline you can call ?  we are both good thanx he's asleep
sadness	tweets	I hate watchn things that make me sad n wana cry
fear	tweets	@RealJessicaAlba Aw what about me
fear	tweets	Sitting at the computer... I should study...  But I'm not right now, because I'm procrastinating again! XD
fear	tweets	I don't feel good.  .My throat hurts!!!!
fear	tweets	@CroSimpleMinds Only Tao in the summer?? That is not many
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67di2 - This is what I meant when I said my skin is terrible. Plus sunburnt chest.
fear	tweets	So tired and I have work at 5pm  #fb
sadness	tweets	found none
fear	tweets	@kennethlim working on a logo &amp; I keep getting click happy  Its me, not photoshop I dont they have a &quot;stupid stop clickin&quot; in ps do they?
sadness	tweets	@nesitajai ur leaving me for a week  i know i dont see u everyday but i like the fact that ur in the same city as me
sadness	tweets	Why did sound input for my computer stop working?  It's not the mic or jack (USB webcam mic doesn't work either) Checked input controls.
sadness	tweets	@Hardcore4 Damn Frat - that's too bad...  Should be a good show (at least I'm hoping so) esp. since it's in BK...
fear	tweets	false alarm on the house
sadness	tweets	dangit. LSU w/ a 7-spot in B7 now leads Southern 8-2.  Was intentionally not mentioning anything and it got jinxed anyhow.
fear	tweets	i feel very ill. i think im dehydrated
sadness	tweets	@ChelseaPiersNYC tiny.cc doesn't seem to load for me  I was thinking on going to the batting cages but apparently you gotta book in adv
sadness	tweets	@Myke329 yooo myyyyye bust how I'm sick tooo... Just shoot me.  Long night tonight.
fear	tweets	Gutted. The kitchen is empty literally EMPTY. No even kidding. I'm so hungry
sadness	tweets	@FreyaLynn dude fail.  i know exactly where this place is too
fear	tweets	I took my antibiotics and I still feel like crap
sadness	tweets	home with chocolate and peanut butter. stupid kids on my bus ruined my yearbook
fear	tweets	&quot;Stop your twittering&quot; - Maryland cookies #bgt
fear	tweets	@rosieeejones i agree with the whole Hollie thing
sadness	tweets	@ringqvist seriously...it only gets sadder
fear	tweets	Ugh! I just realized that I have to completely redo my tweetdeck groups! Pains of computer being wiped clean!
sadness	tweets	likewise @Buttahbrown you better ask about me ;)  I don't appreciate you neglecting the sir fresh.
fear	tweets	would like to have a gaming system
fear	tweets	ree-heally hoping the rain stops by the time i get off the metro at courthouse. i didn't bring an umbrella today.
sadness	tweets	I might be a snob, because my friend-follower ratio is 6
sadness	tweets	damm i feel like the song of dead and gone by Travis Garland
sadness	tweets	@taurenlegend it's kind of hard to see a pic of a doggie if the pic doesn't exist
fear	tweets	But I have cause I missed a lot of classes
fear	tweets	still having a hangover
fear	tweets	shack idol today(: can't wait. it's gonna be funnn poor cameron. he fell ON A BAR in speech today. i felt so bad for him
fear	tweets	going to work soon and so excited!  ugh id rather pluck my fingernails off
fear	tweets	What happened with her??? Why is she being so wierd all of a sudden???
sadness	tweets	saying goodbye to Papa....
sadness	tweets	But I have to cause I missed a lot of classes
fear	tweets	i would slip and fall... on the dirty school bathroom floor. fml.
fear	tweets	Oh... according to mom dad is going to try and take 2-3 weeks off in Sep. to go to Austira, and just wrap a vacation into it as well lmao
fear	tweets	@Chris_Gorham aww, what a shame  ........you can still #followfriday them though, no? &gt;.&gt;
fear	tweets	Day 26 is in town. Wish I could catch the show, but I already have plans. Go figure!
fear	tweets	I couldn't find P4 so I couldn't show Brantley my feet  and now its raining
fear	tweets	enjoying my couch for the last time
fear	tweets	The city officially smells like dead fish
fear	tweets	@candicotton not so good
fear	tweets	http://bit.ly/61Aam   these dogs are going to die if somebody doesn't save them!
sadness	tweets	I keep receiving beautiful pics of the beach from @Charleymagne while I'm in my office working...getting bitter
fear	tweets	@Maliceve yeah mine is stubborn too.  you just gotta keep trying until it does, no way around it
fear	tweets	@smaknews sorry about that anna wintour repeated tweets!! sooo sorry  somethings up... | was wondering abt the quad tweet ;)
fear	tweets	The Rain Makes Me Sad. Its Like I Want To Kill myself,&lt;-
fear	tweets	I think I killed my 6-mo old bromeliad. need a new pet plant.. or not.
fear	tweets	So my alarm got changed somehow and I ended up waking up at 1:00  I feel like half my day is gone
sadness	tweets	Is Home Alone Yet Again; Mam And Dad Rather Go To The Club Than Stay In With Me Or Take Me Out; Yes I Think That Proves How Loved I Am  !
fear	tweets	Hmmmm where is everyone my house is empty.  am all alone.
sadness	tweets	aaaaaw i want to live in the USA
sadness	tweets	or even NOOOOO NOT THE SECRET NAMEREBECCA PLEASE
sadness	tweets	Another two hours of work. Ugh. It goes by so slow. And im sore
fear	tweets	@fresnorock where's the love?
fear	tweets	Want to get a Blackberry but can't afford it  . Just watching the telly and relaxing. Hard sesion tomorrow.
fear	tweets	@BrennaRE Oh yes..i think almost every Tuesday in June. Which dresss, I just bought one, then felt guilty and took it back
sadness	tweets	Today is 777 days until LeakyCon 2011. Awesome number but I wish it wasn't so far away
sadness	tweets	21 days away from being evicted
sadness	tweets	Got really sick today  text me later. Nap time
fear	tweets	I dont like the dentist...they make my gums hurt
fear	tweets	@damohopo no not proper, my dog barks too much &amp; jumps up &amp; its all my fault for not being strict enough
fear	tweets	all these follow fridays make me feel really unpopular
sadness	tweets	Cant find my red lighter that reminds me of Amy
fear	tweets	camping this weekend. boo   i dont get any signal out there...its torture
fear	tweets	Last official WVBR DJ shift EVER! Sad Day   Listen online at wvbr.com.
fear	tweets	What to do this weekend, what to do. Don't think I'll be making it to Michigan for The Wonder Years.
fear	tweets	@Bensue aww at when she was cryin tho...i want her to get thru...i feel sorry for her  shes so good tho.
fear	tweets	STOMACH ACHE!!! Ahhhhhh
fear	tweets	I'm in dire need of a second job, if you hear of anything in nightlife or food service please please please think of me
fear	tweets	@ajandtjsmommy im sorry
fear	tweets	Im trying to move and get up but it just hurts to much...
fear	tweets	@Beadinpath Hi Heather. I dont know why... but I just saw your messages from April!! Have not been very twitter friendly...
sadness	tweets	reyt fancies a valentinos. Worst of times considering i can't have any
fear	tweets	I want Dec to be my dad
fear	tweets	@cecinievas omgggggggggg, cant belive it! what had happened to it friend? do you know where did you missed it? thats not nice!!
fear	tweets	I also concede to my first Twitter grammar fail.
fear	tweets	I feel slightly sick now  #BGT
fear	tweets	has applied for OSAP yet again- God, I'm gonna owe major $$$ by the end of my academic career, this just ain't right!!
fear	tweets	euhm i'm french and i don't really understand English . poo..
sadness	tweets	he wasn't there today   my free day from when the bell rang and wen it rang at the end was okayy..but after
fear	tweets	@adam_griffiths Oh, maybe she will cope then! Now people are definitely going to vote for her
sadness	tweets	my head is hurting
fear	tweets	odd i tried to call mitchel musso but it dosent work....
sadness	tweets	I have the weirdest hives all over my legs and arms. What the heck am I allergic to? It itches SO bad! Dang it!
fear	tweets	New crisis, my bag is too eavy for my DoE
sadness	tweets	why does @mitchelmusso never reply to mee  he must really hate me :l
fear	tweets	my deep fry drumsticks were not as good as i thought they would be
fear	tweets	But now talking about today, Oh my GODNESS! Problems, problems, problems. about love, money, math, parents........tha't enough, isn't it?
sadness	tweets	Just getting back into the swing...Still sore from my surgery  and tired...Coffee time!
fear	tweets	@spizer that's what it is in mathematica. I just meant that I automatically hit the button twice now.
sadness	tweets	Lula is not feeling well.  http://tinyurl.com/m8kcsq
fear	tweets	My twitter isn't updating.  How am I to know what everyone famous is doing!?!?!?
sadness	tweets	@lil_kimmeh Me too, I miss it.  I, however, will #humpthestump for the rest of my life.
fear	tweets	What's with the gloomy weather? The sun must be too tired to come out and play  heading to victoria gardens for some impulse buys haha
sadness	tweets	@iGoByDoc Noes! No kills spiders. They are mostly good. They eat bad bugs. They make WEBS like we do. So you are smushing one of your own
fear	tweets	At work... supposed to be a day off but too much work to get done for PLM World... sigh
fear	tweets	Taking 40 underpriveledged kids to the circus 2moro. BIG day planned &amp; I still aint feeling 100%  so nervous right now..
fear	tweets	@jeayese Plus you guys have IceTV, which I REALLY miss from living there.
fear	tweets	@Itsjustme_Nicki Sorry....I have to go.
sadness	tweets	Neil just picked me up for the show. My tailights out  cause of heartless hit and run.
fear	tweets	Does anyone know how to scale a pic down I'm trying to change my pic but all my pics r 2 big n I keep cropping them...HELP
fear	tweets	road test booked. i r scared
fear	tweets	@cashstwit Maybe something's just wrong with my phone...it's still not working
fear	tweets	@isacullen Oh, that one. That explains so much now. Poor girl.
fear	tweets	unlucky pants    today: lemonade, earlier: white russian in the middle of the dance floor
sadness	tweets	This is a big weekend... final project is due Sunday Night... I will be at this computer all day and night....
sadness	tweets	My tooth is bloody killing, not sure I can wait until next week to get it fixed
sadness	tweets	lots of Reqs today.... no fun
fear	tweets	ashley tisdale , i mean . cuz shes in berlin on 6th june and i'm not gonna be there . i wanna start cryin right now :/ ashley pick me up
fear	tweets	I need to go to ATL, mainly just to go to Ikea.  The stuff I want isn't available online.
fear	tweets	@andybarr I was going to but I'm stuck with it as I seem to have misplaced my remote  It's extra bad tonight as well :|
sadness	tweets	@_iDANCE19 well yes lol ..  i had a chat with them earlier , there just not willing to learn anything else
fear	tweets	@KJB6609 Momentum works!  But Jeff will have a hard time from 42nd.
sadness	tweets	Madly in love with The Row..wishing i had money
sadness	tweets	i feel like crap
fear	tweets	Spent the entire morning in a meeting w/ a vendor, and my boss was not happy w/ them. Lots of fun.  I had other plans for my morning
fear	tweets	@chelseasms it's not sooo noticable it depends on how you look at it...but I know it's there and now my iPod isn't perfect
fear	tweets	Anyone want to stop by Carl's Jr and bring me a chicken club?  Can barely walk...
fear	tweets	I think i may have found my next apartment. Just one downfall.
fear	tweets	@Jayo240 I don't know how to use this
sadness	tweets	The pool is just not fun without Tim in it...
fear	tweets	Bored now  - Must improve my Friday nyts lol
fear	tweets	where's my new @NylonMag
fear	tweets	@ItsBacker I refuse to get excited as I don't want to be let down  if it happens, as long as it's not between June 11 - 28 or I'd die
sadness	tweets	@cassiefasho i wish you still loved me
sadness	tweets	I am very sad because I have gone on the show McFly fan I am of them!
sadness	tweets	ohh my tooth is hurts ohh  im sad it very hurts
fear	tweets	@stackmack I wish I couldn't wrap my head around it  Hopefully it'll wake up some people that say/think &quot;racism doesn't exist anymore&quot;
fear	tweets	@Annnnnaaaaa lol, I've just realised that i've been sending messages that were meant to be to you, to a page that doesn't exist
sadness	tweets	Alexxx Im gona miss you today. Im so sad, noooooooo
fear	tweets	OMG..5 days till 1st state exam!
sadness	tweets	@shanedawson Sadly I live in Scotland though Shane  &lt;/3
sadness	tweets	I wish I was laying in the sand listening to the waves crash against the shore!!!
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 i felt so sorry for her. some people are being really harsh about her cos she was given a 2nd chance
sadness	tweets	@DimepieceMag Ahhh. U know ur sh*t...Love it!!! lol How's the next issue coming along? Been out the loop  sowwy
sadness	tweets	@ego_assassin  We are soooo sorry   We love kitties and know how much they become a part of you.
sadness	tweets	trying to straighten my hair, but it's too effing hot in here. also, i need food
fear	tweets	@steve_merchant I agree, but teenage daughter will be spending my money on the movie of their concert this week.
fear	tweets	Shelf from Ikea fell off the wall. damage done...about $78.95 worth. Or at least thats my estimate.
fear	tweets	@evienyc: Aww, that sux!  @Sitatara_x3: Eeek for Airline charges!!! (X_X)
sadness	tweets	you know what it is to see people you love most in his country and could not get closer?
fear	tweets	Need to dye my hair, can see a slight hint of ginger
fear	tweets	my stomach is bleh!
fear	tweets	@AnKuAlGa  get well soon!
fear	tweets	Is going to miss seeing everyone all the time
sadness	tweets	dont wanna work tonight
sadness	tweets	Barg - We posted the GMOD to you for your birthday!!! But you didn't see it.
fear	tweets	That's exactly why I prefer to give money and play outside the house. Stupid Internet connection always ruining my instances!!!!  #wow
sadness	tweets	We're all a little upset cause Stephanie didn't bring brownies today.
fear	tweets	@xLaau Laura elle s'en fou elle don't like the french fans
fear	tweets	Every time it rains, I see at least 1 ambulance
sadness	tweets	Having asthma issues today.   BAH!
fear	tweets	Headache, . . . sad cupcake
sadness	tweets	its friday &amp; every1 has plans but me..my mom is laser tagging w/ friends(haha)My brother is out..my sister and dad r working me-bf=alone
sadness	tweets	@JJaneBB I didn't include that in my getaway music.  I fail.
fear	tweets	Its so hard letting her go and seeing her cry.
fear	tweets	This is not a happy tweet
fear	tweets	@itsthegrape ROFL  Even if I kept insurance and payments under $300, Im still like.. meh. Good thing I applied for a day job pasy $2888mo
fear	tweets	@ddlovato where are ya headin to for your family vaca? i hope the paparazzi leave you alone
fear	tweets	Man i cant belive that you did what you did? Everything does not look as good as it is..
sadness	tweets	@heidepaneer   We could probably get some $$ for it on craig's list.  List it, I'll cry later.
fear	tweets	watching Jon &amp; Kate plus 8..can't believe they're divorcing
sadness	tweets	@wojo4hitz @marchingstars @winkiedinkie @erockett89 Now I feel left out...  All alone in AZ...lol
fear	tweets	someone take care of me, im so sick
sadness	tweets	@victoriax64 im sorry
sadness	tweets	producing the 6 with @PieterBickford then anchoring... and a sad goodbye to Miss Lynne Ashminov  we will miss you!
fear	tweets	Santana - Maria Maria (The Wraith)  ? http://blip.fm/~7a10a
sadness	tweets	Sulking at home while it rained was poor strategy.  Now i'm watching the sun shine from a desk in the Robarts reference room.
fear	tweets	Sick daddy  send prayer his way
sadness	tweets	Is leaving Utah today  Super Sad Face
fear	tweets	@mleshock Noooo! Poor SE
sadness	tweets	R.i.p. to my lil sis's cousins babyfather Jimmy aka GemStar
sadness	tweets	@shabooty are being douchie? lol...thats hilarious man. i have a headache from the meeting.
fear	tweets	@pinkalici0us argh! color me jealous! That rain I asked for the other day still hasn't gone away
fear	tweets	Jay Leno's LAST NIGHT..Jay, you will be missed
fear	tweets	@Wheeeeeeeeler  lol awhhk wats da chances holly gets through den?
sadness	tweets	This week has been so lonely without gossip girl xoxo
fear	tweets	@Senfaye Me too. I found out about it a little late and couldn't afford it
fear	tweets	@FTSKirstin i know he cant be, but idk how long he will be gone. what if he forgets me?  idk im stupid for worring.
sadness	tweets	@bloodyironist that sucks.  But woot for Misha.
fear	tweets	It's hot.  I could turn on the A/C, but I'm trying to be green for as long as I can stand it   Right now I'm just a little red and shiny.
fear	tweets	@simplyvannesa heyy i have a sis of 1 year with 5 months and still she don t want to walk..
fear	tweets	@isaacnow didn't know you were on twitter! Coming to the show tomorrow?? Lorraine can't make it
fear	tweets	So sad you didn't day Hello to me  @Jonasbrothers
sadness	tweets	@lizzerdrix I hate cottage cheese.  I even got some fancy stuff last weekend with lemon and berries...I could only eat half of it.
sadness	tweets	I have to work tonight  But I get my paycheck!
fear	tweets	@tutugirl1345 you could say that. I left it in VT and have been Blackberryless since Tuesday Night. I'm lost
fear	tweets	@bmoney389 Lmao, when I was camping, the water in the shower was well water and just smelt nasty
sadness	tweets	@UncleRUSH so unfair i wanted to watch it but up came a message saying &quot;this video is not currently available in your country&quot;
fear	tweets	awww i've lost a follower i fail
sadness	tweets	in science class right now... urgh... stupid project.. don't wanna go to track after school! too tired!  lol
sadness	tweets	@tommcfly i hate feeling like this
sadness	tweets	@Aonir awww don't be sad  we'll download a copy for you!
sadness	tweets	@photogjack Yeah, the prices on the used market for Hasselblad are not even close to the way they used to hold their value. It's a shame
fear	tweets	@JessikaSay awwwh - i'm sorry  i hope you fell better - watch a film ?
sadness	tweets	@megs775 I'm sorry Megan!!!    I'm sure he will find something quick.
fear	tweets	Ohhhhh Barcalona. Please dont ruin this  #bgt
fear	tweets	@improperhostess what!!!????  where are u guys going!?
sadness	tweets	My daddy left to go back home to Texas  i will c him hopefully n the next two months
fear	tweets	@EmeraldAshlee yea he said brooke's gonna come over to record today!  @CHANiCEDEVONNE!
sadness	tweets	Gained 3lbs wish I could afford something other than top ramen... If only I had a job...
fear	tweets	my monitor won't turn on. This can only be the work of my mother.
fear	tweets	@gingeebee  sounds horrid, sending you one of @buddythepug's special #pughugs, look after yourself, lots of cuddles and treats!
fear	tweets	@LimeIce  I dint dump anyone. It's always me who gets dumped and blamed. That's why I don't believe in relationships. #twpp
fear	tweets	@BrandyWandLover won't be able to manage 3 nights babe, have lil ones depending on me here!!  xxx
sadness	tweets	gotta buy the second season of  ghost whisperer now, but noo moneyy
fear	tweets	#BGT  ooooh tooo weird for me
fear	tweets	Why are tea pitcher things so hard to find?  I haven't seen any here, and I've only found this http://tiny.cc/vynk5 online.  Ugly.
sadness	tweets	@TehBlue I don;t know how they interact. I'm getting better with the pain, though. I want to give my poor liver a break.
fear	tweets	Burned my pinky.  great way to start my weekend thats gonna suck anyway.
fear	tweets	I try soo hard toget what I want.. &amp; I always end up having a goose egg..
sadness	tweets	Getting one of the lil GEM's ears REpierced after work today- definitely dreading it
sadness	tweets	Maybe I was wrong, this week could have stayed good, but it didn't
fear	tweets	@morlhon  that's bad as it affects all the languages that run on the JVM. Too bad!
fear	tweets	At tweetup loc, but don't recognize anyone  am outside in turquoise shirt. Please see me! #g4c09
fear	tweets	just got home...I was @ work to get the key 4 tomorrows douple shift
fear	tweets	@gronumbulator yeah, just realized what the whole notification thing was. Thought it was them notifying me, not me spamming my followers.
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67f8q - This is making me sad
fear	tweets	Ohhh me, i am rather bored. How can a friday night be soo boring!
sadness	tweets	I'm bummed that the @retrorewind contest is only for the 48 states   What about Hawaii??
fear	tweets	cramps r eew  shall hug a soft toy to my tummy n zzz the pain away
sadness	tweets	@FreyaLynn lol seriously.  fail. ::sigh::
sadness	tweets	@TraceeEllisRoss no not at all. I MISS GIRLFRIENDS!!!!  i have all the seasons.
sadness	tweets	Sucky day so far hope it gets better
sadness	tweets	@tromboneforhire No Zune HD at E3???  This means no games on the Zune HD like I dreamed.
fear	tweets	Too much food at today's company gill out, want to go home and lay in the sun. Instead here until dark, probably
sadness	tweets	Home from marble falls, back to reality
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67fcj - what i have to resort to wearing today cause i haven't finished my laundry. lol.
fear	tweets	@ohayemily you okay bby?
fear	tweets	@DaveDinsmore miss u guys,terribly!! no Todd yet    he is a busy boy  maybe tomorrow night!
fear	tweets	@ausaudriel Well I asked you a few days ago and you said money was the only thing holding you back Saturday or something
fear	tweets	@Puertorok57 n'dito  I messed up your name, sorry hon ;)
fear	tweets	Ugh..just starting another 2 hours of behind the wheel for drivers ed
fear	tweets	@DeliverImHungry You are right.  If you ordered a static IP it should have been set up.  I apologize if it was not
fear	tweets	Having a boo-hoo day. Things just suck today
fear	tweets	He's shy...............but it's cute ily. but you don't see it or know it &lt;3
fear	tweets	@ashleytisdale: cool that you liked germany and the awards! i saw you on TV cause i couldn't come to the comet and see you live  xoxo
sadness	tweets	im watching tv at home wishing i could get a chicken shish delivered but not go enough pennies
fear	tweets	I'm terrified about the surgery next week
sadness	tweets	@Crizzoid I cant stand summer fever (for me) and when the weather gets really humid  lol
fear	tweets	@GettingFreedom @AmysFinerThings We don't feel too comfortable using it. It's not awful, but pretty icky.  Scurrying to find a deal...
fear	tweets	I don't think that im feeling too well. all the sudden, im tired but scared to fall asleep cuz I know I will wake up sick.
sadness	tweets	And why do they think &quot;how much they want it&quot; is a factor? I really want to be 19 and fit again, but that's just not going to happen
fear	tweets	Answering detailed questions via Twitter can be very difficult. It's a challange to get everything in to less than 140 charactres
sadness	tweets	@millionfagmarch ah, I misunderstood your message. but really dislike the F word in the url   good luck with the march
sadness	tweets	Apparently it's 21 degrees in Kilkenny now! And some comedy would be a great remedy to my boredom! Why the hell did I leave Kilkenny!?
fear	tweets	@MATTHARDYBRAND What is everyone saying about the supposed nude pics of Matt Striker? Hope he doesn''t get in trouble
sadness	tweets	So much for having a fun day off at the Brewer game... at home, sick
fear	tweets	@Skedaddles that is very true..
fear	tweets	Watching Jeremy assemble jr's new radio flyer bike!!!  Jr is sick with 100 degree fever  taking a nap.  This will cheer him up though!
fear	tweets	graduation next sunday.. im going to miss my class
fear	tweets	@tinyraisins Im in so deep its disgusting. I would even take a LITTLE help. BUt alas i sense it will never happen . . .
fear	tweets	had to pause tv, now i'm 10 minutes behind on BGT
fear	tweets	I miss @digital_dragon and @motoash  I wish they'd talk to me more often
fear	tweets	@jeremycowart I love #polaroid - such a shame they don't make the film for it anymore
sadness	tweets	being LAME and not in deland with his favorite people
fear	tweets	I quite fancy Gregg on #bgt. Singing wasn't as good as his audition though, sadly
fear	tweets	@Willie_Day26 awww man, its nott
sadness	tweets	Poor little MBA is on fire again
sadness	tweets	@mrskutcher sorry Demi, just read post that you can attend BGT. Im sure your support for SB has helped tho  a world without paps PLZZ
fear	tweets	Headache
sadness	tweets	@ddlovato or with other food like i can't put penutt butter in my bread it always broke my bread  y need to tosted TOO MUCH NOW
sadness	tweets	Demi is a super girl but she don't like the french fans
sadness	tweets	Staying after school today
fear	tweets	@chelseytx I don't have the app that does it
fear	tweets	Oh no!!!!! It's raining on our Sea World parade  http://yfrog.com/0wvnpj
fear	tweets	@shanedawson YOU SHOULD TOUR!! *lol* I live all the way out in Tennessee! :-P jk. How would you do that?
fear	tweets	is very angrrry! my FB account just got deleted- WTF??? all my poems I have ever written are on there
sadness	tweets	wish i was camping at loch lomond right now  stupid work. what film should i watch?
sadness	tweets	lol exams i didn't go to mcast or other school i finished form 5 and that's it soo disappointed in myself
sadness	tweets	... lunch is no fun when you have nothing to eat.
sadness	tweets	@dorkybarb There are currently 0 penguins at the MN zoo...  but we can go sometime soon.
fear	tweets	my cat just fell off my bed lmfao, bless her. she got a fright  xx
fear	tweets	One of our favorite homebuilders declared bankruptcy. McStain homes out of Louisville is closing down. http://bit.ly/c9iJr
fear	tweets	@lizzerdrix The stuff I got was precariously close to ricotta cheese. It didn't help.
fear	tweets	i feel like i'm quarantined everywhere i go... pinkeye, go away already!
sadness	tweets	@saytri lol exams i didn't go to mcast or other school i finished form 5 and that's it soo disappointed in myself
sadness	tweets	@gi_ri_ja  it sucks, doesn't it?
fear	tweets	@MissBernardo i'll do whatev but i dont have anything to wear
fear	tweets	Have slept all afternoon and evening after getting back from NYC. Now feel bright as a button. Probably a bad move
fear	tweets	@jingruz you can have the sun too. It all sucks, especially for my pale whiteman skin.  @mfnbpwnz I can't stop sneezing, and I blame you.
fear	tweets	Extremely busy weekend. So much work to do.  Can't wait for Summer!!
sadness	tweets	Baby just left  gonna get ready (again) and I'm leavin'  Chilis = Full -_-
sadness	tweets	Sadly, the time has come to put my mom in a home
fear	tweets	Oh.... great.  I think I'm getting sick.
fear	tweets	No @clairabellejp tonight @skc0602
sadness	tweets	@KellyOlexa my monday starts on friday  but @ least I only work 4 days a week (long days)
sadness	tweets	@NightRPStar I don't think so. We just hired someone for that.
sadness	tweets	@MelanieRicheson - I used to have NKOTB sleeping bag too!!  I don't know where it is now
fear	tweets	Poor balcony sealer guy. Stuck in the rain.   http://mypict.me/20Oh
fear	tweets	@PoyntlasLove it was  i dont think i can look at her now without feeling heartbroken lmao x.
sadness	tweets	no class the next two days...but work  everyday from today til next wednesday  so sad
fear	tweets	@Mangowe You're welcome, I am off for some merry noddingtons myself soon. It's not even dark!
fear	tweets	we dropped the baton in the 4x1.  so now i'm getting ready for the open 400. wish me luck!
fear	tweets	no boby will not talk 2 me
sadness	tweets	@lovekelsey she's not coming to detroit  only grand rapids in october...
sadness	tweets	@socha4e Me too! I know  I miss all the excitement lol
fear	tweets	@WESH  That is really sad
sadness	tweets	http://bit.ly/GQdbD  one of the saddest songs I've ever heard
fear	tweets	Or maybe its just us ....
sadness	tweets	wish it wasn't raining
fear	tweets	@ChewwyUwe http://twitpic.com/66st1 - please let me freee... I can't watch you masturbate for much loongerrr!
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67fue - My formerly pretty car
sadness	tweets	@ it hurts me that my sister has so much potential and she isnt using any of it  what a waste of God-given talent.
sadness	tweets	back to Salvador. Wish I was in Sao Paulo to see the second concert
fear	tweets	@mayankdhingra yeah... i guess my password was also changed... i was not able to login my FB  cahnge my pw again ...ufff
sadness	tweets	Draining my iPhone battery in half a day without making a single call sucks!!! It's only 9 months old! Huge FAIL on Apple's part
fear	tweets	Too busy at work today to trash the cubes of vacationing team members
fear	tweets	I'm hungry  wife is at a Bodyshop Party and is bringing a takeaway home with her - how much longer will the party go on?
sadness	tweets	@Lakers Stu Lantz is awesome! I miss Chick Hearn tho
fear	tweets	I hate Windows.  I miss my lovely Ubuntu   I'm such a nerd haha
fear	tweets	; Another friday night cancel.  probably movies with just Ashley.
fear	tweets	This heartburn may be the death of me.
sadness	tweets	@Samm_xx awww, that sucks
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso Im sad i cant go. it makes me sad
sadness	tweets	So sad they discontinued my sesame tofu salad at trader joes
fear	tweets	@ego_assassin @slinka sucks about your cat... hope you guys feel better
sadness	tweets	Gonna miss you Nanna &amp; Bampa, She going to the lake disdrict ):  Omg !! got disney channel. Miss you baby matt  Love you x Will do mitchel
fear	tweets	Sick......and no it's not the swine flu atleast I hope not
sadness	tweets	too cold to take the boat out tonight   might go out anyway, but danvan isn't in operation either. BUMMER
fear	tweets	@neoknits -- That's got to be hard. My parents have been apart most of their marriage  For 6 months this year t &amp;I will be 10K mi apart
fear	tweets	Ugh. I have a migrane
fear	tweets	Whaaaat a strong rain just came over us here in Santa Clara. I wish I could sleep but I got to attend to an important meeting
sadness	tweets	@Aonir I'm trying to convince @janeylicious to wait a bit to see Up! as well. She doesn't want to see it with me
sadness	tweets	@TheRankinFiles to be fair, she was asking about mktg cd's, etc, but I suggested more and she never even emailed back.
fear	tweets	My Head Feels Like It's Going To Explode
fear	tweets	Sunburnt  Gutted! Hope it's faded by tmw!
sadness	tweets	@davidismyangel is enough time!! (if i get into VIP!) but i know that doesn't make up for it  at least they'll have each other!
sadness	tweets	You can't even gift money away these days.  re: http://ff.im/3lqUx
sadness	tweets	@AnhHoang ?? Sorry you posted the vid again, but it won't load for me...
fear	tweets	I can't go out when my heart is home sick  even if it is my bday, family health comes 1st
fear	tweets	@agentrickard Oh no!
fear	tweets	Need to get an adjustment, neck is all out of whack
sadness	tweets	@Agarcia1097 y r u so defensive on the bus??!!!?? Being mean to me, you make me sad!!!
fear	tweets	@Kyle_B_Judah i am too old for Vegas
fear	tweets	am sitting in the library with eyes half closed cause havent slept in a while coz of exams
fear	tweets	can't find her favorite Nike shorts
fear	tweets	Why is it hot in herrrre all of a sudden?
sadness	tweets	I want to go swimming
fear	tweets	@ursusfidelis sry about tweeting so much
sadness	tweets	@the_law_rence &amp; @SimplySarah19 WHY?! my head feels like the surface of the sun  underneath a beaver pelt.
sadness	tweets	Mi corazonsito tiene frio... this weather sucks!
fear	tweets	But anywho, I just got in and out of the pool within like 30 minutes because it's about to start storming
fear	tweets	@PinkyNKOTB Oh I've got that one &amp; the stp x step one on VHS. Tried connecting our video to harddrive to copy to DVD but didnt work
fear	tweets	put a pot of eggs on the stove to boil..and forgot about them..then remembered them 45 min later! wonder if they'll still b good
sadness	tweets	bad mood and i dont feel good. too bad no one cares
sadness	tweets	@jeremydurden I really miss you right now
fear	tweets	Ouuchh! I hurt my index finger!! ahhhh
sadness	tweets	@brianna_love aw i'm not goanna get to see you tonight   cos i have to leave tot's early to go to missy's bday party. pullin a double haha
sadness	tweets	@tinytim2701 Can't go out this weekend, 12 hours of exams next week prevent it  Got my uni summerball next Sat though, should be good!
fear	tweets	Really struggling with my packaging design
sadness	tweets	Sticks and stones may break my bones...but words will hurt forever.
fear	tweets	I'm really full and I feel sick
fear	tweets	I keep pulling out my knitting at my desk and then putting it back.  Not good!  Not good!    T-minus 15 minutes till release........
fear	tweets	@BrittanyASnow LOL YOU ALWAYS FORGET ME
fear	tweets	@JustPlainMeg im sorry  i wish that i was there instead (it would give you a good excuse to get away from him) hehe...i love you &lt;3
sadness	tweets	@chickwoman97  im riding the highs and lows of moods now.... chores blow
fear	tweets	this is sooo crazy i have fever..
sadness	tweets	AC in our building died.  Been like that for the past 3 days
sadness	tweets	@leathermartini Awwwh.    Sorry!  We'll be glad when you're closer to us, though!
fear	tweets	Its going to be a very long weekend. Very long.
fear	tweets	@rvca i had a blast at the sale today! had one pair of cords mis sized tho  but still worth it! might come back tomorrow! thankssss
fear	tweets	...getting our site transferred over to a new server ... this is going to be quite a job
sadness	tweets	Awww that lil girl on bgt :'( when they said she didnt have time :'( that was soo sad  and them huggin her
sadness	tweets	Trying to decide on a movie with the friends.. not going to well! lol :p  No bible study 2nite, which means no b-day cake  buy my own??
sadness	tweets	saddest celeb story of the week  http://bit.ly/h09Ph
fear	tweets	Just finished curling her hair!!!! And now has to finish getting ready but doesn't have a ribbon to put in her hair
sadness	tweets	Holidays are now over - not fair!!
fear	tweets	Guess I should have called  See ya.
fear	tweets	@kwwheeler  What's all your fault?
fear	tweets	@gillianre no they didn't!
sadness	tweets	Stupid Twitter - now I'm faceless ...
sadness	tweets	@johnhensel hate u....  I have 2 wait one week to see it cuz here (Puerto Rico) is still coming soon....
fear	tweets	@ebassman Right here! Army Wife in Germany! I can't STAND that I cannot be there this summer!
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso i wish i could but it would cost too much to call you all the way from the UK
fear	tweets	@beley It's so not like me  I'm in the middle of coordinating a 3-point move: stuff from IL --&gt; old NYC apt + all stuff --&gt; new apt.
fear	tweets	I'm being a lazy bum..boo for jack he always works on fridays
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso is the album getting a uk release? if not ill have to order it and pay a huge amount to get it shipped to the uk
fear	tweets	@gregverdino I can't believe you tweeted that. It was our special moment
fear	tweets	rushing to sitter to pick up my 103F-fevered preschooler
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso i can't i can't i can't  i'm sad.... i'm from venezuela!
fear	tweets	I swear its so hot I dont want to leave my house  Is it hot where your at?
fear	tweets	@SidanArchion It's all over now...now I have to go talk to people in Melrose...cashier, registrar, etc. All those unfun places
fear	tweets	@TimothyTheron hmm sorry, I went mia there
fear	tweets	@3spur I work at Schneider Electric, but not much longer. They are sending our jobs to Mexico
fear	tweets	@ChuckGysi  oh sorry - I misunderstood. I'm not 100% sure but I'm thinking there isn't
fear	tweets	ouch, my back. I'm sick of having a pamela anderson esque chest
sadness	tweets	everyones just set to &quot;Away&quot; on msn.. nobody to talk to :\
sadness	tweets	@HeroBeth That was my entire week!! I didn't get to design once while at my GRAPHIC DESIGN job, only at home doing freelance. Sad.
fear	tweets	Now standing because my tailbone is killing me
sadness	tweets	@Clumsyflic the kid that got a second chance shudnt have. mowgli didnt. gutted
fear	tweets	So freaking close to getting my car back. Told me I could pick it up then call back to tell me there is a crack in the mfing windshied.
sadness	tweets	really really misses her
fear	tweets	does not want to go to sixth period.
sadness	tweets	oh yes, the Cavs win game5, now onto game6. it's still danger, they HAVE to win this one either, it's no shot for the championship
fear	tweets	deff workin this weekened
sadness	tweets	Damn, I never knew I could miss my phone so much for 4 hours till they told me I won't have it back till then
sadness	tweets	playing with Zeke, he's leaving today
fear	tweets	@ChantelleDaily sold out in 6 stores, i don't think so
fear	tweets	Just finished taking world geograhy final!!! I think I did bad!!!!
sadness	tweets	@KellyCombs  I'm bummed to miss you.   Hope you enjoy your writing conf. tho!
fear	tweets	@MegsEggs i know its such a shame  i think they've got a good chance &amp; i hope they do coz they are different aren't they &amp; great :]!
fear	tweets	I'm all scared and bruised.
sadness	tweets	I am sucking with the abbreviation today. Sorry  My sentences look like my eight year old is typing them. lol
fear	tweets	Medicine Man Oh Medicine Man where for Art thou? FEELiN.... FAiNt... can't....go .....On (lyin on floor)  `````````
sadness	tweets	@aaronob I had it! On my itunes, but then I lost all my songs.
sadness	tweets	Its official, I'm having the worst day. I called it a mile away
fear	tweets	Weekend looks sloppy  Looking forward to a great week with great customers!
sadness	tweets	i'm sickk  ... tomorrow will be a disaster if i don't get better.
sadness	tweets	im depressed on this pretty day  Everyone either is doing something or CAN'T...bleh -.-
fear	tweets	@misspache  Ya, it was pretty bad. Not sure when I will get to go visit. We have been super busy lately.
fear	tweets	head hurts and I feel sick  and I have to go to work tomorrow
fear	tweets	@OhBlee awww, that sucks  But they're so awesome when you get one, all squeeky and happy. I only have one left now though
fear	tweets	@nicola_prigg pah - she isn't ready for it poor little mite
fear	tweets	@HaleyFaye  Why?
sadness	tweets	@pawstoupdate that breaks my heart
fear	tweets	#bgt Will Holly take being paraded on stage again for potential rejection?
fear	tweets	@travisjestes  never have good dreams like that.
fear	tweets	WFD: Lasagna. Still 45 minutes to go, so hungry now.
fear	tweets	ummmm i have no idea what im doing but my friend is pissed off at me now and i dont know why she hates me so much I NEED HELP BRITNEY plz
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso it's so sad, i'd love to talk to you but i live in the uk  can't wait for the new album, please say hi to me xxx
sadness	tweets	@DirtLawyer Re: SWA &amp; Pets - Good news for owners, bad news for people w/ allergies who needed to fly for less $$. Sad for many I know.
sadness	tweets	@ultramegaman I've never done a Friday digest... today is an anomaly, usually my schedule on Fridays doesn't leave time for it.
sadness	tweets	I already miss my Mohawk.
sadness	tweets	Arrived safely in San Fran. Disgraced to report that I tossed my cookies. Seems I no longer have the constitution for flying.
fear	tweets	has a good heart... or so says the doctor. Except that the doctor won't be in until Tuesday afternoon to put that in writing....
fear	tweets	@MightyJunebugg nooo... as a font connoisseur i can totally relate dude, my heart goes out to you
sadness	tweets	@gillianre  im not happy im emailin a complaint! haha il hav 2listen again on sunday
sadness	tweets	@LexieLovesgreys well sadly I live in the most boring city in the USA, so there is nothing to do here.
sadness	tweets	Cant believe Venus lost. A real shame. Smh. I think im getting sick  Had such a crap week, doesnt look like the wknd is gona be better!
fear	tweets	@HoptonHouseBnB I know - no probs. The driving bit always gets to me this time of the ac. year  Which bit of sea are you going to? Aber?
fear	tweets	@FreyaLynn it's too friggin late now.
fear	tweets	Almost 2 more hours then i'm out of work. Time couldn't go by any slower.
sadness	tweets	my baby man is 4 years old a week today  he's growing up too fast.....
fear	tweets	at the direct selection tool who is being stubborn and not working for me today.
fear	tweets	R.I.P little bird that flew into my window snapping his neck
sadness	tweets	@Suziebee123 yes dear....  ... I'm opff bbl8r
sadness	tweets	came online for a big cause. ruined
fear	tweets	i got stung. by a bee.
fear	tweets	A long and stressful day coming up tomorrow. Have to write responses to EOI; doing a colleagues job
fear	tweets	i have so much homework  i think i am going to hide in a corner and cry.
fear	tweets	AAAAARRRRGGGHHH! there is a huge spider in the towel pile, *cries* glad Kerbear isn't here  sorry mum cant bring the rest in
fear	tweets	@adrenalynntoao I've been readin your last few twitts. I hope your ok
fear	tweets	@rolandsmartin Awe Man, I hope someone turns it in
sadness	tweets	@arnteriksen I'm having exactly the same day you are, man. Just buried over here  #FollowFriday
sadness	tweets	@kaelahbee Aw, Kaelah I feel so bad for you. This sounds serious? Please get better soon. I admire you for still working hard and stuff.
sadness	tweets	is feeling Fab today and missing my boo
fear	tweets	@ausaudriel no money atm, plus I did that trial so I don't know if it would let me play without buying that new exp
sadness	tweets	@RosalieJHale I'm fine, I've just been trying to figure out the meaning behind this song, and I cant think of anything.  urlm.in/cnmt
fear	tweets	On runway 2 hours
fear	tweets	#bgt It's a shame that the Dreambears won't get through
fear	tweets	just took my best friend of 13 years, How well you know Katie Outzen quiz and failed, how does that happen? its just so sad!
fear	tweets	Noooooo worst news ever today my tattoo artist is moving omg what am I going to do!?!?!?!?
sadness	tweets	fed up of pain now
fear	tweets	@thisisryanross I won't leave you alone until you accept my appology
fear	tweets	@natalidelconte I bet you received lots of hit from that tweet; at work i cannot, wish i could
fear	tweets	@Smokeroomsocial I'ma say you should smudge yourself before I start calling people given the malicious action we pulled the other night
fear	tweets	How to get a $40 trumpet book - get caught in the rain with an $80 trumpet book ... oh dear  NY
sadness	tweets	Broke the laptop again...
fear	tweets	@kiteman1 yeah unfortuantley  Sam hanks crap bowl that he like rolled along the floor got me out  grr
sadness	tweets	just wants to hear his voice
fear	tweets	@xXHAZELXx Don't think you would be happy if you were...
fear	tweets	wants to go back to charleston
fear	tweets	@Doodlebug18 I'm sorry darling  anything I can do?
fear	tweets	My grandpa just told me he feels useless. I said, &quot;Papa you're in your 80's, you just do what makes you happy&quot;, somehow I doubt it helped
sadness	tweets	my dog poppy is poorly  i hate seeing my pets ill, so sad!
fear	tweets	@MrJRGregory Im 20 - believe me, I've tried! I'm just too ginger! Freckles join up on my face - that's it!  get it out a bottle cancer ...
fear	tweets	@MrJRGregory Im 20 - believe me, I've tried! I'm just too ginger! Freckles join up on my face - that's it!  get it out a bottle cancerfree
sadness	tweets	Hernia is hurting way more than usual tonight, no way I'm able to go out!
sadness	tweets	@eabearce oh @ work? poor boy
fear	tweets	@canadian_diva yeah I know! other than youtube rip I don't know how to keep it.
sadness	tweets	Got a bad headache
fear	tweets	i had navy blue under my black nailpolish for a while and i think it stained my nails a little..
fear	tweets	@melodykid ahhh i cant go then! i could've gone at like 1
fear	tweets	just doesn't understand why this thing wont save my photos  Defo uggo! lol
fear	tweets	@vicenzo2009 No star replies to me
fear	tweets	Someone just sent me a random phone pic of Asian cats (with the paws in the air like in sushi/Chinese restaurants), and I don't know who
sadness	tweets	Why do my friends feel as though they don't need to bring gifts to my house warming...A mess
sadness	tweets	@nova_caine I saw it, it made me sad
sadness	tweets	Dammit, forgot to go canvas shopping today
sadness	tweets	another long day..glad its the weekend..but still on call
fear	tweets	@thepresidentJx3 should I still come? Its gonna be a while
sadness	tweets	i don't even want to go to the store to get ice cream.  i wasted a cute outfit on... sitting on my ass on twitter!!
fear	tweets	Never got round to buying the ice creams in work- took a call from my lawyer which knocked me off kilter
fear	tweets	Guess this is a 24-48 hour maintenance.. I'm so sad I miss my friends
fear	tweets	@mleis hence Jew on Jew. Not pretty. I'm sorry
fear	tweets	Dead gerbil
sadness	tweets	stomach cramps; sat in bed with a hot water bottle having some hot milk &amp; toast, i feel like a wi girl again :') minus the stomach cramps
fear	tweets	I am so tired!
fear	tweets	&quot;And now my mom and her friend are drinking.. Greatt..&quot;
sadness	tweets	Omg what is up with parents today !  I've been fighting with mine
fear	tweets	@Need4Sheed_com Ohhh got it. It's the 8830 I think  I miss the Pistons  I really hope Joe D cooks up something big!
fear	tweets	frame damage... car could be totalled
fear	tweets	My logic to getting a short prom dress? Last year it was so freaking hot I was dying... Look at the weather...  hahah just my luck
fear	tweets	Had a totally chilled out day relaxing in the garden in the lovely weather. Shame I have to go to work tomorrow
fear	tweets	@Mwissa Really? Can you send it to me too? I don't get the internal emails.
fear	tweets	Traffic is horrific on 695..I jus wanna gt my dog
sadness	tweets	@sheila_libere ...Moving all done, no internet until Monday   at an cafe, like the new place, and work is fine. everything else, so so.
fear	tweets	@pixonu its ok mate I stayed in as well  losers aren't we
fear	tweets	@mfhorne why go winchester when my sister doesnt go there any more!   bad times.. x
fear	tweets	Club day at school &amp; I can't go b/c I hurt myself during school by trippin over some1's backpack.
sadness	tweets	@MISSCOKASPLASH yay but you missed naptime
fear	tweets	@PinkyNKOTB  lol - thats 51p less ive got towards the cruise!!
fear	tweets	@sarahstanley I shudder at the thought of what she was thinking she'd do with it if she'd managed to reclaim it...
fear	tweets	@cartermason bummer, bro, sorry to hear that
sadness	tweets	@oyfreakinvey u witch! im upstate in a fucking hick dry county. so no alcohol or ethnic food.  im crying.
fear	tweets	Just tried to sign up for @Foursquare but apparently Knoxville is not a big enough city  Will Knox ever be on the list?
fear	tweets	@LaurenConrad when I tried to go to her's I got this message &quot;That page doesn't exist! &quot;
fear	tweets	@love_primaDONNA lucky.. where do you live? im in vegas and it never rains here...
sadness	tweets	@nicole531 http://twitpic.com/5rylt - ur so lucky! there, the stage its so close of theem! here not  i think we're dangerous (?
fear	tweets	i hate going to work.
fear	tweets	Being attacked with cola..... all sticky
fear	tweets	Sorry everybody! Apparently Twitter isn't sending me my updates.
sadness	tweets	I am sitting at work watching the clock.  It isn't moving fast enough.
fear	tweets	@PerezHilton  that's sad. Trauma... Future serial killer...
sadness	tweets	sorry to tweet about BGT but poor wonderful crazy weird Greg  so not fair. the silly little girl is never going to cope. urgh. NOT FAIR.
fear	tweets	Ugh I have a hedache; I may be cheap, but fucking shit I still have class with how I roll
fear	tweets	my eyes hurts..
fear	tweets	@soapylove I saw that - unfortunately it happens to be on the same day as my high school reunion   I will have to catch you next time.
fear	tweets	@Shar_Music I was not hugged
fear	tweets	two hours till our offer on the house expires  no word yet! Come on people, sell us your house!!!!!!!!!!! #Parker #Colorado
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus I miss you...  come over and say bye before I leave!!
fear	tweets	My wedding next Thursday and I'm ill
sadness	tweets	this day has beasted me.
fear	tweets	does want a lot of things right now  and i cant have them-yet.
sadness	tweets	&lt;-----bored to death
sadness	tweets	Oh no! I just read they are going to do a remake of Girls Just Wanna Have Fun   Stop it hollywood-just stop!
sadness	tweets	@laurenbernal MAKE ME ONE! I'm still craving shrimp
fear	tweets	@Jennifalconer I don't know if I can bear to watch Hollie tommorrow night,it's a bit hard to take seeing the state she gets herself into
fear	tweets	being re-admitted, at this stage for a three-night minimum with a hopeful tuesday discharge
sadness	tweets	Craving munchkins so bad.
fear	tweets	Nvm, not working period
sadness	tweets	@briarlaboheme oh dear.  that is terrible. however, moleskine notebooks rule. a lot.
fear	tweets	@laurawrholmez  I know! they were running out though, Soph had to get a massive one...
sadness	tweets	Time i get into The Game they cancel it there will not be a 4th season  i like that show!
fear	tweets	wondering if anyone has seen my cell phone i cant find it anywhere
fear	tweets	Stubbed my little toe this morning on my file cabinet ... and it's turning black
sadness	tweets	my girl friend also dropped me
fear	tweets	@DanfromAston I have heard that about a lot of programs like that, we go to a large chain of learning centers, sorry for you!
fear	tweets	@theloudninja Not by choice.  I have to use it for that one project that never ends!
sadness	tweets	Watching QI on Dave - still quite bored! Not even Adam Davis can cheer me up.  And he's quite funny.
fear	tweets	I am trying to upload my background from twitbacks. its not working
fear	tweets	@KelleyLCarter: Yeah, I fell asleep  I'm sorry. No way in the world I was waking up @ 7am lol. I had to work @ 9am.
fear	tweets	@msfeather24 You're the one getting married on me
fear	tweets	Why does my boss have to come in today.....
fear	tweets	@thatlass as much as i love to be hopeful, i reckon the chances are minimal =P i'm never gonna get my cake and stuff
fear	tweets	my pic didn't work
sadness	tweets	My hips are too wide to rock those mario Kart shorts  why couldn i have the bone structure of a 12 year old boy?
fear	tweets	@BitchNotAPerson I can understand the fear. I feel that way about many things. You really need motivation to overcome it. Mine was guilt
sadness	tweets	@blkademic I'm sorry to hear that! sometimes family sucks
sadness	tweets	Sick at home and so bored  I want to get better already so I can enjoy being a college grad!
fear	tweets	Hey every1! Do yesterday was my prom and it was the best. I wanna go back in time :] Ima miss every  new picks up soon myspace.com/risound
sadness	tweets	weekend, bought Lost Odyssey, YAY  ------- however, my 360 RROD'ed on me  it's the second time
fear	tweets	GREG NOOOOO DON@T LEAVE ME  U SHUD HAVE GONE THROOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!! im gonna find u restaurant don't worry lol  cry cry cry
fear	tweets	@beherenw lol must contribute to the destruction of language...awww
fear	tweets	@RyanSeacrest that was such a tease!  I cant wait til Sunday!!  but then after that, nothing until November   oh well, i can wait!
sadness	tweets	no southland this wk
fear	tweets	@jr_smith1 wats i got luck for u guys to beat la!! lol i would like to see this best wishes to the denver nuggets but my cavs are done
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67hvr - This picture is from last year freshman year how I miss thos days
fear	tweets	Just had a horrible experience with a dentist.  Had a crown made that doesn't fit right and they won't fix it or give back the money.
sadness	tweets	is not having a good day... I havent had a good week forreal!!
sadness	tweets	I had 2 hoes .. now I have none
fear	tweets	Ok the thunder is scaring me
sadness	tweets	@Fall_in_love aww me too!!!  we miss you.
fear	tweets	Was late today, due to construction!!!      tGif...
fear	tweets	Placed a $2 bet on a sure thing and lost.  no more betting for me!
sadness	tweets	we're getting another puppy  ... not cool... really
sadness	tweets	woo hoo its friday!! ....wait.... i have to work at the cleaners tomorrow.
fear	tweets	@fishkutta omg kool. I'm not on the road
fear	tweets	@KaseyTheGreat I submitted my resume the same day and saw no answer back. Oh well...
fear	tweets	@SEXONWHEELS  thats it, rub it in that ur seeing morrissey! il just go and cry in the corner  x
sadness	tweets	@gergtreble I trailed the streets of Sheffield and couldn't find the pub!  And all the numbers I had were landlines. How goes it?
sadness	tweets	I need to relocate to the west coast.. This weather here is killin me!!!
fear	tweets	Nnnnoooooo!!!! Just learned we've got a frost warning for tonight!
sadness	tweets	@mileycyrus why you never answer me...
fear	tweets	Under sooooo much stress lately
fear	tweets	Gees can this week get anymore horrible....now i cant go to spain
fear	tweets	@sand67 so sad...sorry to hear that.  She was a sweet dog.
sadness	tweets	me and chloe are drinking away our sorrows, Dreambears SO should've got through
sadness	tweets	@epiphanygirl man i missed it!! Ive been waitn all day 4 u 2 giv the tix away &amp; then whn im rappn up @ wrk u gav my tix away! Im sad!
sadness	tweets	is loving the half day! If only it wasn't raining.  Soccer Practice tonightt.
fear	tweets	My Sharpie is running DANGERously low on ink
fear	tweets	@problogger I know, the suns not even up and ive been up for an hr. Tossa decided to sleep ON my side and cold nose me.
sadness	tweets	Having a light depression. Just payed an extra bill from last years taxes... Must find a country with a tax that is lower than 56%
fear	tweets	@JDuckworth I'm so jealous! Wish I could join u. It's so cold in LA right now.
fear	tweets	Poor little Holly will be up all night preparing her act for tomorrow
sadness	tweets	My fingers hurt
sadness	tweets	I miss my daddy so much.
sadness	tweets	just cried all the way through the final episode of ER... and the 'previously on ER' documentary about it!
fear	tweets	@NikkiCrivello i've got really bad arthritus in my left hand. I cant use my thumb at all
fear	tweets	@ricanitaliana89 u really don't think so?  maybe ur right....lol. btw what phone u using? think u told me b4...i might have an app for u
fear	tweets	Hmm, had first pizza in ages and feel a bit sick now  That'll teach me!
fear	tweets	is sick and it doesn't seem like i'm getting better
sadness	tweets	Im going bed i dnt feel well as always
fear	tweets	@misst7 yes, actually, I am. When I'm home, moms does the laundry &amp; I do the babysitting. She broke something that didn't need 2 b fixed
fear	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg Mr. Ddub how bout' announcing a new date for the NC shows? please don't leave us out. i got my refund 2day for 5*
fear	tweets	@ProudKiwi missed you by 10 min, haha. went to sleep at 15 past, but had a major anxiety attack around 630 again. ugh.  boo
sadness	tweets	@julezykins must be kidding. No boys (definately)(I hope anyway o_O) and no girls (probably) honest I must be proper ugly no-one likes me
fear	tweets	OMG I'VE JUST SEEN WHAT HAPPENED TO HOLLIE! POOR ICKLE ONE
sadness	tweets	really is missing her daughters in Haiti!  Wishing i could go back.
fear	tweets	man, i ain't been without V's presence in a minute...i feel like a lil kid with no momma
sadness	tweets	@batman_sounds bicycle? Sucks i cant ride with you
fear	tweets	wishes zak wuld trust me enough to give me bac my necklace  i want it back, but he thinks i'll cut with it..... http://plurk.com/p/x2qkb
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67i90 - My plans have been ruined
sadness	tweets	Just got to work. Only today and three days left.  my heart is breaking.
sadness	tweets	Fuck, we have some kind of bugs in our house. And we dont know why or what it is
sadness	tweets	@CaptainFlashman  Oh no - Poor you!!
fear	tweets	great cant eve locate my phone! there goes 200 down the drain
fear	tweets	I hate life at the mo, it sucks
sadness	tweets	@active_girl - Bummer...mail came but package didn't
sadness	tweets	@lilyroseallen yes........there are many cool things americans cannot watch
sadness	tweets	I is so lonely
fear	tweets	@chante4dannyxxx Nope probably revision  Hbu? x
fear	tweets	Husband Went off to bed, now off to missing him again until he is off again Tuesday
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67iab - Rounding bases - she was fast during relays. Not so fast during the game
sadness	tweets	Guess I have to go back and scrape out the oven now. Blerg
fear	tweets	@simonruggles I would much rather you didn't punch yourself in the face...it might hurt
fear	tweets	@prd3000 Also, I am technologically challenged and have a cell phone that only makes phone calls.  Can't #tweetb4Ueat
sadness	tweets	why on twitter does no one talk 2 me i know your all celebs and i'm nt but it's nice to be spoken to once in a while
sadness	tweets	What happened to the warm?  I will commence pouting until it returns READYSETGO
sadness	tweets	fridayyyyy!!.... but i'm working
sadness	tweets	@whitney_g my day just hasnt been the same without ur running conversation all day
sadness	tweets	@LeesaB nooooooooooooooo! well the 4G will prob be out in June but that doesn't help u now
fear	tweets	Computer is packed away. There goes my life. Right into a cardboard box.
sadness	tweets	I am very bummed that there are no babydoll or spaghetti-strap tank Three Wolf Moon t-shirts. Love the meme; hate wearing a fabric box.
fear	tweets	@itstayloryall you didnt include Taylor in the &quot;Follow Friday&quot;
fear	tweets	Phoneless for the next couple of hours. No one to blame but myself.
fear	tweets	@AndreaaaB ooops! the last link is the same as the first! sry my mistake
fear	tweets	I need a job to keep me above waters...thought I had one but apparently its &quot;Casual&quot; so now on the search again
fear	tweets	My flip flop just broke...walking in downtown seattle
fear	tweets	is a lil sad bc I wont be able toeat a hot dog and Big Kahuna cookie sandwich at the Ranger game tonight!
sadness	tweets	@itslisali Too bad I can't come!  Enjoy urself tho.
fear	tweets	@jonasbrothers pleaseeeee .. it was the only thing I wanted for my birthdayyyy!  please say happy birthday to me!
sadness	tweets	I'm boredddd. The day has gone quick  I don't like it!
sadness	tweets	Darn, I had one and it slipped right through my fingers
sadness	tweets	Finally the school day ended, Friday Friday Friday w00t! But it's raining outside.
fear	tweets	i have a headache
fear	tweets	Heyya guys! does anyone know how to give formulas to create a sudoku? Please help
sadness	tweets	I need to play inFamous... Where's a free Blockbuster rental coupon when you need one? I miss that Coke Reward
sadness	tweets	justwatched the most depressing episode of Jon  Kate EVER!!!i actually almost cried.
fear	tweets	soreeeee throattttttt
sadness	tweets	Wish I had a laptop charger so I could tweet faster
sadness	tweets	is veryyy upset she cant go to hacienda tonight because the stupid nuggets game
fear	tweets	im feeling like ish!  i just wanna go home and go mimis
fear	tweets	Dad asked me why I was sticking my tongue out while I was ironing, and I told him it was so I didn't burn my finger, as I burnt my finger
sadness	tweets	When you FEEL you can not LIVE without something is when IT is taken away.   Oh, to do it all over again with what I know now.    Movin ON
sadness	tweets	Comin back from the mall didnt get anything cause i have no money and stuff  but tuesday is pay day ilu ~Joshy~
fear	tweets	@ceramicheart gonna go home and TRY to take a nap. I am emotionally exhausted   ... I will be in after.. &lt;3
fear	tweets	I have a stomach ache... Totally sucks
sadness	tweets	i am the only arabic girl who's online  every one is  a sleep ..
fear	tweets	@donotrefreeze THAT'S A SHAME REALLY
fear	tweets	@Fortyisthenew20 i was stupid and didnt get it, now i cant find it.  i think i have to do ebay but that scares me
sadness	tweets	my new picture won't upload!!!
fear	tweets	@donnyosmond Were getting old Donny. I got one starting high school next yr and one going into the 7th. Where have the years gone?!
fear	tweets	Here at work still feeling the pain for my friend wish I had a magic wand to erase all the madness
fear	tweets	Omg, my mom just called... Im too late... Hes gone
sadness	tweets	photography class over summer cancelled. going somewhere i dont want to and missing the spring game  and no email from eric swist
fear	tweets	@g4tv Batman: Arkham Asylum, but I don't own a system that will play it, sadness
sadness	tweets	Off home ill from work. This man flu is hell
fear	tweets	@avstansfield omg i had a meltdown when he died/actually died in real life  av got the box sets!
sadness	tweets	wanted greg pritchard to go through     what a silly, sobby and hopelessly dull little girl hollie steel is?
sadness	tweets	@EshSoMajor how dare u? after all the love making we've made over email, im a stranger? u never replied
fear	tweets	@callmaggie After I water the plants I am headed to the farm. Don't have any popcorn for the goats   Katnip is looking good under saddle
fear	tweets	slightly burnt challah  The proof is in the eatin', though...
sadness	tweets	lost my keys at the mall... took me 45 mins to find them
sadness	tweets	@yelyahwilliams Noooooooooooooooooooooooooo! You can't do that
fear	tweets	Why would someone even do something like that, you gotta be pretty damn desperate for attention!!! lol poor keanu
sadness	tweets	Whuuurrrrr - glands really swollen now. Guess the weekend's a blow out.
sadness	tweets	nothing good on TV
fear	tweets	My dog is sick. I love that little doggie. He's usually so keen and happy, but he doesn't even want to go for a run in the forest today.
sadness	tweets	@RedStarFuture awww NO. you're not ugly.
sadness	tweets	@allysonrobinson ...as well as bell hooks Teaching to Transgress.  Sometimes I miss teaching &amp; messing with bad system.
fear	tweets	@karate_Kid congrats; im still jobless
sadness	tweets	@moonfrye Working extra hours...
fear	tweets	@loveeamber @item84jeremy it sucks no matter where you are! I'm gonna freakin be late for work!
fear	tweets	@dimensionmedia @refreshboca? what is this? is everyone abandoning me?        ;-)
fear	tweets	@Impala_Guy Yeah unfortunately  The flight is most expensive.....the rest is not so bad - the flight is ca. USD 800 - 900,--
fear	tweets	@MamaKimi  hope he is ok!
fear	tweets	LOVED &quot;Drag Me To Hell&quot; and &quot;Up&quot;...yeah my Spend the Day Studying plan didn't happen
fear	tweets	Moses and his girlfriend broke up!
fear	tweets	@MissTinaYao yea. I was off today luv. I shudve told u.   anything exciting happen yet. And I saw u last night
fear	tweets	Feeling awful, new medication is making me nauseous
sadness	tweets	Great first impressions about the little netbook- they only downside is there is no access hatch to upgrade the RAM
fear	tweets	@BBBaumgartner  sad day. I was lucky enough to realize it before I got out of the parking lot.
sadness	tweets	Just saw up with my favorites and surprisingly it was way too sad
sadness	tweets	@don_iain well my team couldn't
sadness	tweets	i have no followers
fear	tweets	Sad that Gmail chat has died, so I can't help @natalidelconte
sadness	tweets	Its an undeniable truth.  I suck at talking to people.  No good at making a connection.  i come off as either strange or distant
sadness	tweets	It's Hollie spelt with an 'ie' not a y!! She made me cry on BGT tonight  Gxx
sadness	tweets	iigghhtt, just fur geet it. idc. idk. eh blah ugh. blah idk... hah..=] um yah.. immboredddd, ugh  ill just fuckitt
sadness	tweets	How did I give birth to a SCREAMER?? I hate screaming children!! I guess I hate screaming children besides my own, now.
fear	tweets	@BrandonJhon something we all need sometime
fear	tweets	i don't feeeel good. :/ my head hurts. and i have too much homework to do.  schools no fun. :p hehe
fear	tweets	Anyone have some advice??? I need it!!
sadness	tweets	Yea!  Headed home to change and head over to Pelham.  Sad thought... suposed to be heading over there for the NKOTB concert...
fear	tweets	@Japes_76 haha.  weird?!?  no sunshine for us
sadness	tweets	I love summer, but I oddly don't want this school year to end.
fear	tweets	@flyersonthefly http://twitpic.com/45r61 -  saddest thing i've seen a while
fear	tweets	@x_crazyangel oh noooo, did he not get through?
fear	tweets	Sorry if I'm confusing anyone. I keep forgetting to @reply. The desktop Twitterific  is not so terrific  Very different from iPhone app.
fear	tweets	@maraslj I miss you already   come visit me pleeeeease
sadness	tweets	@yourboogiegirl DUDE. same.  it hurts
sadness	tweets	@falselove OH THAT'S GOOD! My top 4 are: The Haunted House/Sound one; Bakery; Inside Ralphie's body; &amp; ..... I FORGET!!
sadness	tweets	@Gracious_Greta That is so not good.  Your box is worth way more than that!
sadness	tweets	Doh. In a rush to get to the Puma Open and I just got pulled over. So sad.
sadness	tweets	@yagulmez yea i just got outta one too....i want him back tho  but i feel the same way...i'm cool on dudes for a lil while
fear	tweets	I just stuck my finger down my throat and there are a bunch of bumps on my tongue &amp; throat.
sadness	tweets	Today is a sad day for Tucson: http://tr.im/mQ39 I shall miss the sour cream apple pie, fondue, and separate seating for groups with dogs
fear	tweets	mail came, still no inFAMOUS
fear	tweets	Darts and lunch at Horse Brass... but no beer for me  http://bmap.us/2134
fear	tweets	@jonsedar I'm jealous. I have so let it slip what with the baby and all. Not sure I could even do a half right now
sadness	tweets	@JoeyArceo yeah, but no new material.
fear	tweets	i cant sleep, i dont deserve this .... N you know it
fear	tweets	OUCH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!.........that really hurt!!!
sadness	tweets	@ACMcWhale really good, but it's definitely not a 12's. So many people getting burned alive
fear	tweets	@sunleo727 I'll stop by for a bit when I'm off.  But have to rush to rehearsal - no quiet for me tonight.
sadness	tweets	@AnimalBehavior_ sorry  i dead ass was gonna do that
sadness	tweets	Been a beautiful day today i love the sunshine, missing my man though he is away all weekend  xxxx
fear	tweets	@EidolonNight That's kinda sad. And they're poking me while they're at it. Huh.
sadness	tweets	plans got ruined no blackstone  going to carnival tomorrow if the weather is good
fear	tweets	@Amanda_Holden I must admit though, part of me didn't want her to get through so she wouldn't have to put herself through all that again.
fear	tweets	@exorre Our raid leader made us run drills to practice switching
sadness	tweets	@xoxoJennxoxox I feel lost...  I keep running (in my head) from staring faces.. haha. basically:Headache &amp; eyes hurt
fear	tweets	Wondering if i cld make things any worse than they already are... answer.. JUST DID!!!
fear	tweets	after 5pm and no email. looks like i'll be waiting at least until monday. boo.
sadness	tweets	facebook is being a bitch
sadness	tweets	Sad because i cant go over my friends house
sadness	tweets	Yep, lost my bet to chris
sadness	tweets	Messed on these   But I'm makin' it right! @taraellis19, @dontennant, @elikamahony Best Holy Day wishes to you all!
fear	tweets	just found out my friend's dad passed away yesterday
sadness	tweets	why do i even bother anymore? Everyone is makin me feel like im a waste of space
fear	tweets	Been job hunting for days. Media and non-media jobs. No lucky  Anyone know of anything???
sadness	tweets	I feel like last night was a dream... Well I guess I should say nightmare.
sadness	tweets	It's not gonna happen again
sadness	tweets	attempting to count the days till i return to canada...theres alot of them
fear	tweets	@LezmirandaPOW *humming* hmmm hmmm hmmmm hmmmmmm Touched for the verry first time..... Hmmmm hmmmm hmmm hmm hmm mmm mmmmm ......
fear	tweets	I really should be doing something more productive, why am I not there yet?
fear	tweets	@beccaschlagen Oh no!  I hope you find your kitten
fear	tweets	@McFrezco - whoa. &quot;sack chasing whores&quot; ? that is soo out of character for you to say that...  bring back my sweet Superman
sadness	tweets	i am braid free  i miss thee ... BLOND HERE I COME!!
sadness	tweets	I'm so sad, really really sad
fear	tweets	@xScarlett_x How did your Geo ISU go? I swear I just had the worse day ever..
sadness	tweets	i really cant take this.
fear	tweets	@chasingsunshine I'm sorry, but you wrote that on a blackberry which means you loose any respect i had for you
fear	tweets	Waking up way to late = bad.  Getting yelled at for it later = worse.
fear	tweets	Damnit Day 26 is at Northpark mall..I use to live near there  someone steal Mike for meeee!
fear	tweets	I hate how MS makes me feel. I can't control my legs 2nite &amp; am in too much pain - it's driving me crazy  Anyone else get those moments?!!
fear	tweets	no one wants a #VirtualKiss
fear	tweets	Didn't get chance to pick up my copy of Guitar Hero: Metallic yet
fear	tweets	Yesterday I didn't do much because I was just lazy, but today I don't feel so good.
sadness	tweets	@jonathanrknight  still no direct message for me. what the hell am I complaining about? i'll c ya in 27. if u don't answer i'll ask in 5*.
fear	tweets	Why do i never get to see my paychecks? It's not fair, the second i get them they're gone!
fear	tweets	@asco will the presentations be available online during the meeting?  The poster discussants are going so fast I can't write fast enough
sadness	tweets	EMO moment!!  Just said good bye to my best friends EVER! But we'll meet again for sure!
sadness	tweets	OMggg. i just heard someone is gonna die on the new season of the secret life of the american teenager  noooo.
sadness	tweets	@theycallmeTAP http://bit.ly/3oRh6 &lt;&lt; i miss music like this
sadness	tweets	my little sister told me i have a double chin  aww
sadness	tweets	surgery effin hurts
fear	tweets	I was expecting the sun to come out today. I guess that's not happening.
fear	tweets	@konst4nt1ne im sick  if i wasnt, id be at the show with ya!
fear	tweets	My boyfriend just broke his wrist, now he might need surgery  im so nervous
sadness	tweets	@Jesusfreak1900 probably.  sucks for you.
fear	tweets	@scottisafool  I had a analog tuner the MC team gave me few years ago. No inbox drivers, but WU handled it. WU drivers were pulled in Jan
fear	tweets	I need help Twitter world! Orange theraflu pills...are those going to be the drowsy or non drowsy?
sadness	tweets	I hate when a program freezes during installation.
fear	tweets	Omg, little kids with cancer is the saddest thing ever
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus i thought i was your best friend
fear	tweets	FATTY! omg i just found the worst shit out and idk what to do i need to talk to you!! hopefully i see you when you get off work.  its badd
fear	tweets	@ChrisGBaillie aaaawwww wont yr brother blip things for you  LOL
sadness	tweets	miss him way to much... just cnt stop thinking of him   nite nite folkkz...
fear	tweets	OCHH ive got blister on my foot over the sun today its soo sore  i supose yas dnt care hah just thaught i tweet it anyways
sadness	tweets	i'm a little sad that school ended today i'm moving so i'm going to miss all my new friends from this year.    just got a hair cut
fear	tweets	@jamieaiken919 *JEALOUS* I desperately wanna go shopping, but alas, I have no cash.
sadness	tweets	At drs again
sadness	tweets	rec game....trying not to cry...the pain is to much..i need him...can't lose him &lt;/3...my heart is breakingg
fear	tweets	@juliestrialtrib so sorry to hear that
sadness	tweets	@Amanduuhhh Omg same here! They hurt so much
sadness	tweets	@hardrockchick super but I caught a cold on the plane.  not as far forward in line as I'd like, but the extra sleep was dearly needed.
sadness	tweets	i'm so hungry
fear	tweets	I don't remember the last movie I saw in the theatre, and that makes me really sad
fear	tweets	@Carolz_S I know McFly gonna be in Brazil  Say them hello!!!...I wanna be there
fear	tweets	@xXSam_01Xx   dont leave us !!! whats up ? xxx
fear	tweets	@garycford I gotta say, I feel bad for everyone in NKorea.  They're starving, and they have a crazy in charge who endangers them daily.
fear	tweets	I want to change my twitter name but I can't think of anything
fear	tweets	Feel hurt. in car. gonna watch a funny movie. someone talk
fear	tweets	I hear it's a scorcher back home - all we've got here are clouds  Back in the studio, maybe if we're lucky we might get 2 songs done 2day!
sadness	tweets	@arikhanson Shoot! I voted and somehow looked over yours ... boo hiss. Forgive me   Have a great weekend Arik.
sadness	tweets	@hummingbird604 @brendonjwilson @gregeh But @LeftCoastMama is right: This is like the Cape Breton coal mines but ++. No lessons learned.
fear	tweets	@PotFace sorry i didnt reply earlier  i feel better now.
fear	tweets	sighs. where's my candy
sadness	tweets	Back to the freaking homework.
sadness	tweets	@mikki_kayla02 MEEEEEE TOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!! I'm gonna be SO disappointed if it's just season 7.
sadness	tweets	My brain hurts
sadness	tweets	@joenkobema73 what's wrong? How come u in pain?
sadness	tweets	missed Britains got talent    gutted.
fear	tweets	i dont know what gonna do on my lame fridaay  maybe see me with my besties!!
fear	tweets	Awe i feel so left out
sadness	tweets	maaaaan last night was a funny night! sad aswell tho
fear	tweets	I am sad today
fear	tweets	@annief1 had a panic with the car .....
sadness	tweets	it's sunny but i'm bored  sad call or text me
sadness	tweets	I could live off of mediterranean food for the rest of my life. I miss home
sadness	tweets	@lilxcutiesworld He played the song but didn't send it out as a request
fear	tweets	history project
sadness	tweets	i'm kinda sad of being alone all the time i miss my brother  and my friends suck i mean no one has even called me in 2 weeks
sadness	tweets	@_CorruptedAngel my god, really! Really? 50? Christ
fear	tweets	@markhoppus aww mark  that makes me sad I got mine on presale.
sadness	tweets	@emo_zaboo its ok, it just hurts abit i thought i was doing a good job... if i was rude to people i could understand...  x
fear	tweets	Happy its the weekend...LOVE has knocked me down ya'll!!!
sadness	tweets	@crust123 there's just no air
fear	tweets	ug i think i blew my phone interview  i like them!
fear	tweets	what a day!!! motorways and trains noooootttttttt fun
sadness	tweets	@eddyizm Do you not like turtles?
fear	tweets	has finally got some Zyrtec for this terrible allergy attack.    I hope it doesn't put me to sleep before the game comes on tonight.
fear	tweets	@cyrusbaby I miss you...  come over and say bye before I leave!!
fear	tweets	Not looking forward to the upcoming week...My better half will be gone all that time! It's TRULY GONNA SUCK BIG TIME!
fear	tweets	Didn't realize Animal Kingdom closes so early at 5:00 today. Now I'm stick in the exit traffic
fear	tweets	srsly, BGT, joke maaan. how lame. ughhhh work tomorah have to get up early
fear	tweets	My foot still hurts from stepping on a spider...owwwwww
fear	tweets	@SEGA small? we cant choose?
fear	tweets	So jealous im not at asylum right now
fear	tweets	Starting my 2nd shift! Im going to miss like an hour of the lakers game!
fear	tweets	@Ponyless soz i neva saw this message till now...if u add then delete me i cant see any messages uve left on my page
sadness	tweets	@PembsDave lmao im gutted cos it didnt come out right
sadness	tweets	Last 3 days of school....I'm sad but happy but anxious.....
sadness	tweets	stupid Folkestone cinema is only showing Star Trek 3 times, damn them
sadness	tweets	@mrinklin i have started saving my Tumblr drafts because that happened to me this week and i was so sad
sadness	tweets	@marijo008 no he sabido nada de ti, this is making me a bit sad I must say!
sadness	tweets	im sick,youre sick. imy
sadness	tweets	She is beautiful @webduck. But don't feel badly. Some neaby grans see grandkids about the same amt.   Can't go to them = out of luck
sadness	tweets	@TheeRealFDHC Welcome to Glasgow Felix, sorry I cant be there tonight
sadness	tweets	@lilyroseallen britains got talent is rather disappointing this year
fear	tweets	No more spending the day chatting with Steve on the computer   Now what I am I going to do at work?
fear	tweets	OPS sorry  Queen Mom
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67jzp McFly concerts through the years [H]... Don't have my '06 one though  :/
sadness	tweets	My sister is having a stupid party &amp;&amp; I wanna hang out with my friends, but hilly won't txt me back...
sadness	tweets	I want some pineapple! I miss my baby
fear	tweets	@AmBamThankYaMam so i spoke too soon.... &amp; my weekend may be delayed for like 20 more min  aaaah i gottaaa get outttt of here b4 i lose it
sadness	tweets	My sunburn itches  ouch
sadness	tweets	@karamat If only we could ever actually be allowed to stay here and do that
sadness	tweets	Oh no it's storming... gotta get off the computer.
fear	tweets	gear troubles all day long!
fear	tweets	@Shamoneyy I wish my mouth wud lemme chew all tht.. Pause...I def wud love some of that..
fear	tweets	the tummy monster hates me
sadness	tweets	@nickwall0 Im not bannished... but I am at work till 6
fear	tweets	wow my grandma passed away....I'm too sick to even think, I know she's in a better place now
sadness	tweets	@annejsimmons Just the mother of all bad days
sadness	tweets	i think they are working why eyes are drooping  its so weird being under drugs i dont like it ... cant wait for tomorrow though
sadness	tweets	Seriously Bored Now!!!
fear	tweets	needs a new job either closer to home or worth the drive
sadness	tweets	@AKDB Tell me about it
fear	tweets	i wonder if there is a life after Alzheimer's caring. beyond despair. poverty sux but commerce is futile. there is no description. mommy
sadness	tweets	@Sandy_B_ Shes bad they won't sort her out and is in a lot of pain
sadness	tweets	Oh yeah, this is why I don't like waking up early.  Around mid-day I get all tired.
sadness	tweets	@julierubes I won't be at the game.  Found out too late.
fear	tweets	Work is an evil whore. That doesn't let me check my text messages
sadness	tweets	@SUPERRZAAAP i forgot the yardsale event! ooh how pity i am
sadness	tweets	@themakelounge -- No fair, I want a sticker but I just moved away from London
sadness	tweets	i've got nothing witty to tweet
sadness	tweets	Have to work today.  http://plurk.com/p/x2rt8
fear	tweets	@JodiOKeefee what on earth happened to wentworth's page?!? i'm devastated, as i'm sure ALL of his fans are!
sadness	tweets	Greg Pritchard was ROBBED of a place in the final of BGT... Cry baby bitch-face got through instead
sadness	tweets	oh my god!!! i cried so much!!! watch this guys from BGT  http://bit.ly/5t5Xz
sadness	tweets	got to clean the bathroom today.
sadness	tweets	@BTV_SUPRNATURAL  ok thanx very much u can send me the answer by private mail if u like but would be sooo cool wish i was in birmingham
sadness	tweets	@wendica I checked.  We didn't win
fear	tweets	@mareyachristina haha i shaved all my facial hair off except for my moustache cause i thought it would be cool! But it made me look gross
fear	tweets	Just lost my internet signal  how will life go on
sadness	tweets	@honorsociety luvvv it- but one aquestion-why isn't there any full moon crazy tour date for toronto!?!?!?!!??!
sadness	tweets	i just watched Marley &amp; Me...i cried so hard!
sadness	tweets	just missed to answer his IM AGAIN! For the nth time! This is making me sad.  Whenever he IM (which is all the time), I am always out.
sadness	tweets	@RobbieBarnes No Sky. Terrestrial analogue only
sadness	tweets	I'm craving something salty in my mouth!  Tired of pretzels tho.
sadness	tweets	aww, anyone see hollie steel on BGT tonight? wharra shame
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67k9w - - My besties. If only @DemtriaLovato was there.
sadness	tweets	Is there a way I can sleep for the next 8 or 9 days? That way when I wake up, she'll have returned &amp; I wouldn't have missed her SO MUCH!
fear	tweets	@willnoon I believe the address is 300 Ottawa Ave. NW, Grand Rapids, MI (Calder Plaza), wish I could've seen you guys last night or today
sadness	tweets	@MalcolmMillion nah i understand you cant cancel i just wanted you to come
fear	tweets	AP: North Korea could opt for devastating land assault... http://tinyurl.com/nmg9ht (via @Drudge_Report) Scary talk to say the least.  mm
fear	tweets	@therealpickler hey kellie,how are u?I FEEL HORRIBLE!
sadness	tweets	@honorsociety i like it and all butttt your not going to have it at the august 7th concert which hurts my feelers
sadness	tweets	I am so sick and tired of this on and off rain
sadness	tweets	@nataliejanette Im so jealous that Im not going to blogher
fear	tweets	AHHHHHHHH!I can't get miley to notice me......
sadness	tweets	@LisaTayl My stay was great! BUT my mother gave me the cold/flu before I left and I still have a cough...
fear	tweets	i dont know what to do on my lame fridaay  maybe go out with my besties!!
sadness	tweets	It's 10.30pm on a Friday night and I'm going to bed. How pathetic.
sadness	tweets	@leirastorm  That's sucky. We'll miss you being on.
sadness	tweets	jazzy we should be in vegas w A team
fear	tweets	To cap things off, the lower part of my back really hurts.
fear	tweets	@arsenal_fann coming up! Sowwy!
fear	tweets	what an awkward day. it sucked
sadness	tweets	@jerrib247 sorry mom! I didn't mean to. I shouldn't have tweeted that, you are already having a hard day  Love you!
sadness	tweets	Ohh boy my babys tooth came out !
fear	tweets	I am in so much pain I really don't feel too good. Couldn't eat my dinner
fear	tweets	@astropix Yeah I just accepted UBC's offer last night, but I dunno if I'll still make it in because I've been slacking off a lot lately.
sadness	tweets	@ludwikc broken  I can't c it
sadness	tweets	Loving the new skype! Especially for someone like me who lives half a world away from home!
fear	tweets	@mikki_kayla02 Sorry! I didn't mean to ruin the rest of your day
sadness	tweets	on my way to work. I'M SO HUNGRY!
fear	tweets	My big mistake for today is falling asleep while i got lots of things to do
sadness	tweets	@DubarryMcfly really has anyone got through to the finals yet? yeah was it i was stuck in class for most of it  loveyoufletch xxxx
sadness	tweets	now its raining in PHL and more delays in the flight schedule - bummed that I will be missing Jay Leno's last tonight's show today...
fear	tweets	@ShabbyGomer wish we could have surprised them and gone to H, but just couldn't work it out.
fear	tweets	@Jonasbrothers @ddlovato you are disappointing me......
fear	tweets	@HerMonkeyMan I don't think @JazzyHale22 will want to come back  (guys read your dms)
sadness	tweets	Working 930a-730p today. 1.5 hour lunch..8.5 hours work. Overtime = good. The fact that I'm already dead tired = very bad.
sadness	tweets	mummy i need you
fear	tweets	@JonnyRadtke i'll miss you when i go to future kill hannah shows
sadness	tweets	went to see the dentist. can't eat and im starving. really sucks.  and ist's painful.
sadness	tweets	have to change practice pools, someone threw up in our normal pool
fear	tweets	ha im so glad it stopped raining.  my umbrella broke today
fear	tweets	Is trying to recover from a broken heart....yet again for the 2nd or 3rd time
sadness	tweets	did crossfit running today...agitated my right leg
fear	tweets	have a biiig headache.
sadness	tweets	@MFarrugia I never was good at platform games...
fear	tweets	I have started to fear weekends since joining German classes
sadness	tweets	@ninjabetic Oh no!!    Hope they get you in soon and can make you feel all better.  Hugs from the other coast!!
sadness	tweets	just went to the dentist my mouth hurts and I can't eat until 8
sadness	tweets	ahh sore throat and tired. want to go back to bed. but have work
fear	tweets	I am pretty confused.. leaving is the best option and I know it will benefit me.. but I don't want to leave behind what I truely love
sadness	tweets	@lexiloohoo i'm sorry  today's been nothing but a fucking heartbreak
fear	tweets	I wish my cats were indoor cats.
fear	tweets	this darn cold just keeps getting worse  i bought some hayfever pills just to try out maybe i've had that all along
sadness	tweets	Well it's official I have strep
sadness	tweets	no one calls me anymore
sadness	tweets	is on her way to Seattle! Yay for Seattle, boo for Matt leaving.
sadness	tweets	@Itxi_Itx no credits for me unfortunately!
sadness	tweets	Best friend is leaving to go back to school today..I am so sad
fear	tweets	late for @mobicamp  sick kid at home, hope she feels better later tonite
sadness	tweets	Sunburn hurts...
sadness	tweets	I dont like this random gloomy weather
fear	tweets	@MeccaDonna  well hit me and we can see...it depends then
fear	tweets	The random article generator on Wikipedia led me to: http://bit.ly/EMtcw which I remember playing before. I never got past the 1st level
fear	tweets	@riskybizness23 You never write back babe.... my feelings are hurt
fear	tweets	plus it hurts seeing sum1 you love falling for someone else!  not even kidding im wellllllllllllll gutted. xx xx
sadness	tweets	wishes people wouldn't be so stubborn sometimes.
sadness	tweets	Whoa, I didn't mean to sleep for more than an hour
sadness	tweets	@misscherrypie  I wish you could get back in yours!! I'm thinking only 16 hours a week out of the bubble would be okay?!
sadness	tweets	is feeling rather lonely and broke...oh wait...I am lonely and broke.
sadness	tweets	@Flossalini no panasonic charger.sorry
sadness	tweets	He didnt leave a voicemail..  -121908inlove(:
sadness	tweets	@DenyButterflies Omg. I am so sorry. Sorry, I never know what to say
fear	tweets	Back from the gym! I'm no expert or anything, but I'm pretty sure I am not going to be able to move tomorrow, maybe even in a few hours!!
fear	tweets	Last day at DMA over!     a million sad faces.
sadness	tweets	Just drove by fisher and I feel so sad
fear	tweets	Going to buffalo wild wings to meet up with my best friends I haven't seen in forever! Too bad I can't eat the food
sadness	tweets	@siirensiiren meagan rochelle &quot;the one u need&quot; i would say &quot;cater 2 u&quot; by he didnt produce that.
fear	tweets	i am on BLAZE and my head hurts.
fear	tweets	oh, not just his IMs, but also from all my friends who IM me! This really sucks, I am always not around!
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus i thght i voted bt i dnt think it workd!  Whats the link 2 vote for u! Nobody deserves it more than u do. Ur so talented. I&lt;3U
fear	tweets	don't feel good
fear	tweets	@BananasMel Tried and no good but thanks anyway.   Off to youtube world.
fear	tweets	I wanna feel my chin
fear	tweets	had best get revising over da weekend got an exam on Monday for 2 hours!!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	It is so miserably hot, the a/c in my house is broken
sadness	tweets	got beat by super LARRYonation
sadness	tweets	@irishjonasfan lol now your making me feel bad for not coming on  lol
fear	tweets	is allergic to you...Oh NO!
fear	tweets	My breath is weezy.  No more going to knotts when you've been sick all week.
fear	tweets	I'm feelin sad, depressed, lonely, unhappy all at once. Rwhats wrong with me
fear	tweets	My back hurts...really bad
fear	tweets	@MizSocialite it's 2 big I can't Use it 4 everday use
sadness	tweets	Hello and thank you for all of the #followfridays people. I always forget, sorry
fear	tweets	I have a headache. Also we are dealing with a lice outbreak. My lovely hair has been affected.
fear	tweets	@receptiongal  hope your day gets better soon!!
fear	tweets	Wtf i just found out that the 20th annual NJ state chili cookoff is tomorrow and im gonna miss it
fear	tweets	@secretidcrisis Sorry to hear that, dude
fear	tweets	@SnowVsAsphalt Not at the moment, well i cant find it yet!  LOL
fear	tweets	It's not monsoon season in Telluride yet, so why does it keep raining everyday?!
sadness	tweets	I just spent 45 minutes at the book store. I only bought one book.
sadness	tweets	missing @justbrad on his birthday
fear	tweets	@Bells83 Never been to the USA before  It would be great to the cruise/tour next year. Whatever it is its gonna be a blast
sadness	tweets	@beckyhope ahh yeah i get what you mean i have an Alevel retake exam the day after the gig  so yah im pretty stressed!!!
sadness	tweets	to be really really... not bored but bad, i won't know the news  but thats ok. BRB x
sadness	tweets	@SimplyKia o iight we gonna miss you tonight
sadness	tweets	Need to sleep but can't
sadness	tweets	@kimitwi btw i have your report too &gt;:] omg at lunch today we had to move from the HC to the trees cause of the heat &quot;/ all my days suck
sadness	tweets	i have officially hit the wall, totally nonfunctionalproductive at work
fear	tweets	feeling like I'm gonna fall asleep any time now but I can't.
fear	tweets	Problem with my must do list is: once I write it I usually forget where I've placed it...1st thing on my to do list--find my to do list
sadness	tweets	@mumalot I corrected myself
fear	tweets	@WeWantNEYOnVibe Knock You Down is playing now...again!!! Cna my day get any better?? I love it!! How r u? Missed u
sadness	tweets	@JasonCalacanis damn I missed the live show, guess I will have to wait till it is available through iTunes
fear	tweets	@dcorsetto Ugh my trousers do that too and I've never found a way to combat it! It's so weird
sadness	tweets	that little boy that drowned yesterday lived in our subdivision and went to nicoles school. so so sad.
fear	tweets	@iamhuntersmith yep, probably will be... wish you had let me know you were interested... had extra corporate chalet tix and let them go
fear	tweets	from seeing all my koreans buisnesses failing.
fear	tweets	Hey @itsmskay sorry about your headahce
fear	tweets	Class until 9:30  yes on a Friday night...
sadness	tweets	@Goatzilla  im not that good yet, my parents still buy me clothes and stuff when i need them &gt;_&gt; but i dont get pocket money anymore
fear	tweets	@tshirtterrorist no sign yet
fear	tweets	Where did everyone go?? boo got no-one to twitter on to now  Wonder if I can con some innocent un-suspecting people into talking to me??
fear	tweets	Trying to calm down kitten.  She is so rowdy.
sadness	tweets	Just heard a single i had been waiting MONTHS to hear....and...im disappointed.
sadness	tweets	@lightsresolve I'm so mad I cant go to that...you're like an hour away from me.
sadness	tweets	probably going to miss Silverstone's race again this season in iRacing , so sad   this track is pure laser scanned awesomeness
fear	tweets	needs to find SOMETHING to wear to graduation. lol can't find anything!
fear	tweets	...And omg whats this dirty letter from Danny everyones been on about? Its absolutely none of my business but I still feel left out lol
fear	tweets	lighters get lost in remastering the same way socks are lost in the dryer  ? http://blip.fm/~7a6ea
sadness	tweets	@flashyfem Sorry to hear that.  If I didn't already so much planned this weekend, I'd have considered going too.
fear	tweets	Nooooo! Its going to rain on my birthday
fear	tweets	@LuvToSparkLe oh i hate it when that happens. i when i transfered universities i had a hell of a time transferring my credits! lost a few
fear	tweets	is sad she is going to miss the Dream Team party... but i didnt RSVP in time.
fear	tweets	@AYEJILLA &amp; @andrewEMT suck at trying to scare people but are good at killing naps.   http://myloc.me/218m
fear	tweets	@HalfDeadPrince i always wants those.. but i would look really dumb!
sadness	tweets	@melroze90210 I KNO!!! im so sad! evry1 is leavin its horrible! im supposed to b happy for summer but i cant ima miss evry1!
sadness	tweets	@drmenlo sorry about Mr Grey, Menlo
fear	tweets	SB 239K.  Flop A Q 9.  4 players check. Turn 9. I check call 200 bet. River brick. I check call with trip 9's with K kick. He shows A9.
sadness	tweets	@SophieChadwick no i didnt! i couldnt get to liverpool today, of all days!  did you?
sadness	tweets	wanted to sleep but a friend from Denmark just poked me on IM
fear	tweets	@cutebug yeah same here... I have a bit of headache too... ick
fear	tweets	@captainflashman wish i could eat pizza, unfortunately it is forbidden here, only low GI, high iron stuff and lots of insulin injections!
fear	tweets	@Remy_Foster Still not working
sadness	tweets	@atraiocatharsis dont ignore me
fear	tweets	@RobbieBarnes weaned myself off it
fear	tweets	So broken now
fear	tweets	Hmmm.... My whole body feels sore!
sadness	tweets	Rainy day in Philly  looks like it's gonna be a movie night.
fear	tweets	...wait, I lied.
fear	tweets	Im worried, not in a happy place right now   Deadline for important discussion 1st June :/
fear	tweets	sometimes the fact that my health for the lack of a better word SUCKS really scares me
fear	tweets	my day is starting at 2:38pm. woops  work in less than 3 hours...
fear	tweets	IN PAIN. my big toe got stomped on during the hokey cokeu. it's throbbing. anyone have any suggestions to heal it?
fear	tweets	man im so sad school is ending  but then again high school might be better :O
fear	tweets	just picked her kids up from Challenger for the last time.
fear	tweets	I wanna go home, but I can't cause the customers won't leave... And my boss won't let me leave either
fear	tweets	I need a haircut. I should not be able to pull my hair into a ponytail.
fear	tweets	I worked more today than I did yesterday, but my time card says that I worked the same....  oh well... Hello weekend!
sadness	tweets	@MaxLucado WGN in Chicago used to be the calm airing of ideas, but in the last 30 days they changed the programing to sound-bite shouting
fear	tweets	Currently drinking effervescent Vitamin C. This sore throat is getting worse...
sadness	tweets	@mspixieriot that sucks...wish we could get it there cheaper...   if you're in montreal, there's a cool shop that carries them up there!
sadness	tweets	@SelectedTweets Sorry Ali
fear	tweets	@TomFelton it wasn't that good tonight  I know DCD though .... I won't say what happened!
fear	tweets	It appears I'm going home tomorrow...and it's not a good thing...
fear	tweets	Preston stayed home and I don't know why
sadness	tweets	Has so much to blog, but has no time to
sadness	tweets	Shipwrecked all weekend  license wasn't suspended, it got cancelled. Can't take the risk driving and no one lives near me
sadness	tweets	this is gonna sound really sad &amp; depressing but I really really miss my uncle Sam
sadness	tweets	Not going to graduation, hubby-to-be not feeling well  so instead, doing more job hunting online!
sadness	tweets	sad   Miss my friends !
sadness	tweets	@_madison that's what you get for abandoning us! I'll miss you.
fear	tweets	@JennaVonTweet Ohhh french tip! My fave, my nails aren't long enough yet tho  Ill ask the manicurist
sadness	tweets	keep @lulion07 and his family in your prayers. his lil bro jus passed away
fear	tweets	Why can't my HP use Dell Dock?
sadness	tweets	@jonashelford Kewl, I only got my iPhone and gotta hope it lasts all weekend  Only got a shuffle, might bring that anyways... See ya 8am!
fear	tweets	@SteveHealy Oh no! you poor thing  you must have booked the tickets before you realised it was Pat Kenny's last night, gutted for you....
sadness	tweets	Feeling deflated. Hubby saw swing set &amp; thinks is a piece of junk. I thought I had found something good 4 the kids
sadness	tweets	@amandapoop no  I didn't yet he never texted backk.
fear	tweets	has some bad newss
fear	tweets	srsly, nobody evr reply's 2 me.
fear	tweets	is sad that Piggy died
fear	tweets	@Bill_Nye why so quiet lately?
sadness	tweets	Okay, whats up with twitter,, :/ my laptop is completely broke, and now my computer is acting up   so I dont reckon I will be on for t ...
sadness	tweets	Feels all kinds of not so well right now
fear	tweets	@greasemusical Hi, I hope Ray is o.k. Please give him our love and hope he returns soon. Hope its not too bad
sadness	tweets	thank/ u guys so so much for helping me out on the followers thing! but im probably not gonna win cause i dont have 100 followers yet!
fear	tweets	@NLtommy nope  don't think I will. Thnx for asking lol I will be fine
sadness	tweets	@jenhp But that is such a bummer you couldn't get your book signed. Sigh ...
fear	tweets	Here's almost 1 AM and I'm staying with my open window...otherwise I'd suffocate myself.  It's way too warm! Ah ~ I so much miss rains !
fear	tweets	@travisricejr Because the ferry that was supposed to take us out changed their schedule. So now I have to fly out on June 30 on a red eye
fear	tweets	Work soon. Lame going to miss the @Lakers  Go Lakers! Hope you win!!!!
fear	tweets	I need a Xanax and have none
fear	tweets	IN PAIN. my big toe got stamped on during the hokey cokey. it hurts so much! anyone have any suggestions to help with it?
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67l90 - @lunawoodcock girrrrrrrrlll i'm going to miss you so bad!!!!
sadness	tweets	@theAV8TR dont quit.
sadness	tweets	bout to take a shower.... a cold shower
fear	tweets	I don't wanna be a fatass when I go to Europe. Need to eat right but it's so difficult
sadness	tweets	@RavenLaR S'ok, trying to plot alternatives as we speak *sigh*
fear	tweets	@Terrellbrw No money... and No Car...
fear	tweets	I think my modem failed-having pc withdrawals..
fear	tweets	I can't sleep... And now????
fear	tweets	pmg im very upset no just relasie hugh laurie isnt on  xxx ohh
sadness	tweets	Somebody get me out of work tomorrow.
fear	tweets	I'm going to be without a computer for a few days
sadness	tweets	i just realized today was my last day to see my best friend tanner im goin to miss him so much
fear	tweets	Hoping I at least have fun 2nite.  Today was 1 horrible way 2 start off a birthday
fear	tweets	Lunch sucked ran out of time  didn't get anything done
sadness	tweets	I'm on relapse  mom and dad i need you. jesus fucking christ you stay away.
fear	tweets	@maureenjohnson i looked for you but couldn't find you amongst the crowd
sadness	tweets	I wanna go shopping!! I don't get paid till next week!!
sadness	tweets	following @twittbitch 'cause @gerhemi ordered it
fear	tweets	@karamcdowell I'm sorry, that stinks.
sadness	tweets	Har vondt i ryggen My back hurts
sadness	tweets	prom's today... i bought a ticket but im not going  cause i dont have a dress, my hairs not done, ect. sucks cause its gonna be awesome..
fear	tweets	My voice hurts. No We We Rock You the musical singing tonight..
sadness	tweets	@Santiaggo that New Yorker cover was done on a iPhone &amp; I'm jealous that I do not have one!  http://myloc.me/21a4
sadness	tweets	Charter is pissing me off, the rest of the internet can access my blog except me   should have it fixed soon they say, we will see...
sadness	tweets	@naataalieee yeah, that was my point &gt;.&lt; please dont make me feel worse than i do
fear	tweets	Oh what a day it has been! Stress and thinking about the future is making me sad!
fear	tweets	im so sad that im missing the @chiodos show in ohio. it's the first show ive missed in 3 years that's been close enough to drive to.
fear	tweets	@jayc1980 @bopsicle called the venue and someone else called - said no tailgating  but we're gonna picnic anyway LOL
sadness	tweets	Lovin  the clean shaven Mr Flowers!  He looks so young!!!  Reminds me that I'm getting old
fear	tweets	@AmyXDD we better be i was jus readin the magazine nd it sounded like London were better than us !!!!!
fear	tweets	Our Quinn puppy got a sick.
fear	tweets	Fml just ran a mile.. And I just got scraped by my yearbook and I got 1/10 on my math test. Eff today
fear	tweets	I was kinda looking forward to seeing Seann William Scott in the office today
fear	tweets	He still doesn't love me... I won't ask again
fear	tweets	having to use IE =/ firefox is playing up and i don't know why  will try and fix it tomorrow.
fear	tweets	Gone to the shiggity shwa. back Sunday.
fear	tweets	My Twitteeeerrr babiieshow Ive missed you  I hate this whole not having a phone thng
sadness	tweets	i cant find my keys
fear	tweets	hugh isn't on it @wossy lied last week
sadness	tweets	It wasn't a good day ..
sadness	tweets	with harry.. baked. love you cassie.. BUT YOU'RE NOT ONLINE!?
sadness	tweets	So my lucky jade nacklace/matching earrings ain't so lucky. Lost an earring. Now the chain broke on pendant
fear	tweets	Guess not today
fear	tweets	Okay so I'm trying to be happy and deal with my problems and my friends' also. Its hard
sadness	tweets	@SookieBonTemps ooc: thanks! Ugh...what a bad, bad day I've had. Damn @Twitter.
fear	tweets	@kabobbins nevermind....I kept reading and see ya'll r gonna be in Williamsburg   I'll mind my business now, lol
fear	tweets	@kristenmchugh22 Oh, I'm so sorry!...my kitty is there right now being checked...losing lots of weight over last 3 wks. Not good
fear	tweets	Heading home in the rain  no pool today...guess I will hit the treadmill instead.
fear	tweets	@EyeFiCard boo...I thought being on the list meant it would be good to go  looks like i'll have to get a CF adapter for my dslr!
fear	tweets	Dropped my lei off at the cemetary.
fear	tweets	@drsteggy The evidently didn't have any of the smaller ones   I will keep looking.  I got a keen thing though for $7 that should do...
fear	tweets	So bummed that I can't see LTJ in June  hoping for a UK yoke soon
sadness	tweets	Just banged my bloody foot! ow
fear	tweets	@purlingsprite that is a bummer
sadness	tweets	omg i tink he is not cuming bckkk
fear	tweets	@kdritchie77 I just tried to go back and the police blocked off the whole neighborhood.  they're evacuating the building now
sadness	tweets	@heritagesoftail Hahaha I miss Bradddd and all of the guys and KEITH.
sadness	tweets	@mareyachristina nope  i'm bored and hungry.
fear	tweets	YAY! My cousin is coming over. I am so stressed my big recital is tomorrow. I tried to practice it and cant remember it.
fear	tweets	fuck my life.
fear	tweets	@eallen444 oh em i'm sorry  i wuv you to pieces
fear	tweets	google wave next, can't keep up with the 186 ways i can communicate with people now  what happened to good old fashioned letter writing?
fear	tweets	@MrPerfect919 i did have 1 n i still do...this job is so dead 2 me right now...
fear	tweets	CRYING CUZ PEOPLE WONT FOLLOW ME!!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	@smiley_steph boo  I miss you! It's been ages. Once I get Internet back I'll try to fix ALO haha it likes to act up from time to time...
sadness	tweets	had a really weird night last night and misses her friends
fear	tweets	@DaSqUeAkYOne those were the good days the jetsons comes on right after finltstones ! i missed it today tho
fear	tweets	Mel? Where Are You You Shud Be Here At My House
sadness	tweets	Has a headache
fear	tweets	is going to sleep. Tomorrow Exam Review
fear	tweets	is hating the weather. UGH.
sadness	tweets	OMFG my favourite jerk chicken place closed
fear	tweets	live now! but nobodys there!
fear	tweets	wants to scream, because the damn phot won't load...I guess this default will do for now
fear	tweets	drinking lemsip cause apaently i need ittt! IM NOT SICK
fear	tweets	gots my beathing suit that i ordered from victoia's secret. but i have to exchange the bottoms, so i have to wait another 2 weeks
sadness	tweets	I wish the sun would come out...I guess it doesn't matter since I'm at work and can't enjoy it anyways
fear	tweets	Well that just sucks. Good way to make me feel bad
fear	tweets	@gettemkbr yo u can't love 1 twin and not the other lol
fear	tweets	I've recently gained this highly sad feeling when I say goodbye to someone who I won't see ever again. Even if I barely know them!
sadness	tweets	@SoccerGameBall i use to breathe soccer, live soccer.until i hurt my knee badly  sad day that was.pass my link around?
sadness	tweets	i'm on relapse  mom and dad i need you. jesus fucking christ you stay away.
fear	tweets	@antennaswrvu i can't figure out how to listen to it from the internet
fear	tweets	Watching GH. I feel so bad for Carly.  OMG, so fucked up.
sadness	tweets	can't believe I'm leaving this place tomorrow.
fear	tweets	mattress armada needs to play a show soon or i'm going to be seriously sad
sadness	tweets	@Bill_Pritchard how come i dont see more of u? how come i dont see u at all is a better question lol. that needs to change mister! im sad
fear	tweets	Rats the Creative VADO's are out of stock at walmart.com I'm too late.
sadness	tweets	I am so sad...
fear	tweets	@lovexoL what happened to your phone
fear	tweets	@shivface oh my god im sooooooooo sick  help me
sadness	tweets	Don't think I'm gonna be able to go to see the JB 3D Concert...wrong time, no where very close by
fear	tweets	@MrBenzedrine you got your lion hoodie!! mines still a week or so away  what number is yours?
sadness	tweets	@Petronella I really want a Shish kebab... Going to have to settle for toast
fear	tweets	@albanydia Not that funny! I wont jump
fear	tweets	Greg Pritchard was robbed  ii am too gutted for words
fear	tweets	@misspostit Na, ya ando pelon
sadness	tweets	@ChrisBrownWeb According to Bow Wow (his best-friend) Chris is not on Twitter, and doesn't want to be : / Because of haters probably
fear	tweets	@Scaraboo Ouchies. Sorry to hear it  Are you going to get it checked out?
fear	tweets	@konstantinshero now my heart isnt cold  but im still missing you.
fear	tweets	@jennyboomboom83 I know how you feel Darian is in LA with Bam and I am missing him terribly. And I won't see him until Sunday.
fear	tweets	@drerae awww. that sux! my mom has a totally numb finger as well ever since she had her surgery for her hip replacement..sucky.
fear	tweets	listening to ryan adams and being sick
fear	tweets	@racer108 you shouldnt have to reset more than once  if it doesn't work right the first time, something is up
sadness	tweets	Sadly I know a lot of women who like this song  ? http://blip.fm/~7a73f
sadness	tweets	Duncan finally got his orders... leaves for Iraq in September. Open invite to stay with me anytime during the year he'll be gone
sadness	tweets	@gabbyflyyy im so jealous! I want to go to ny
sadness	tweets	feeling lonely
fear	tweets	Stu is actually SEVERLY sunburnt....it hurts!!!
sadness	tweets	@laurenyant which means i spend more time alone than with friends and family. how sad
sadness	tweets	The Matrix Online shuts down next month...wow...I feel kinda sad about it
sadness	tweets	Already misses the Dunhams.
sadness	tweets	@ladyloki idiot family and how I have been feeling just don't mix amongst other stuff
sadness	tweets	@bfly13
sadness	tweets	@One_Bloody_Poet  Bad friends! Sorry to hear that.
fear	tweets	@leprakhauns trying to have a baby, don't want my soda addiction to be a problem, so i quit  still sad and craving it though
fear	tweets	i wanna leave work already! Not feelin it 2day
fear	tweets	@ashleygaskins  sowwy. Lover you
sadness	tweets	is missing her best friend  commme back kayla, going out in a little while
sadness	tweets	Praying for pressure on brain 2 subside, for brain seizures 2 stop &amp; for tumors 2 go - Dan is comfortable but still has niggling cough
fear	tweets	I really really really dont want to go to work! 4th shift of the week just to start over on sunday
sadness	tweets	i feel like watching a disney movie...too bad we dont have a vcr anymore
sadness	tweets	Ps BGT was both fab and sad, I thought Greg was awesome, sad he's gone but a child will always win in that situation sadly
fear	tweets	My back is soooooo hurting.
fear	tweets	Recovering from a bad fall at lunch. Great start to the weekend.
fear	tweets	:'( big brother in 4 days! This means constant live tripe on e4 and no scrubs to fall asleep to! Not happy
sadness	tweets	@llcooljew Poor dear. Your fellow busty mavens have been there.  What gym do you belong to? PEAC?
fear	tweets	@TickingTimeBomb LMOA! i just quit one of mine, too much stress
fear	tweets	@Gemmaboyle I hope it'll go by as quickly as possible.
sadness	tweets	@BuddyTV I just found out about the giveaway.. I wish I would have known sooner  What happens with the unclaimed cities?
sadness	tweets	@LoriBartolozzi Oh  I'm sorry  I can't even imagine...although I know it will be reality for me soon
sadness	tweets	@LadyDutchess awww  i mish u too ladie whats been good?
sadness	tweets	all alone.  still watching TWW, eating Italian chocolate and solving logic puzzles.
fear	tweets	Still @ hospital, unexpected complications
fear	tweets	Btw, I think I may miss my flight.  Sasha's gonna be upset. But traffic was horriffic. Pull for me, guys!!!
fear	tweets	@stephenfry I'm afraid your comments on MP's expenses were hopelessly out of touch with the average person average salary. V.insensitive
fear	tweets	but now my feet really hurt...
fear	tweets	i cba with it now   ohwell might play another innabit
fear	tweets	@flyzik awe! i miss him so much. they're on &quot;vacation&quot;. which has lasted for like, six months. and i miss you!
fear	tweets	Just dropped my new mobile down the loo.  Fingers crossed it works as I still have 17.5mths left on the contract
fear	tweets	@kterwin I keep trying to talk myself out of Australia by thinking of the jet lag  So far it isn't working... I still want to go!
fear	tweets	Just as quickly people arrived people have gone  Still hungry must find food!
fear	tweets	Poor winston!  Going on a run!
fear	tweets	Home Sweet Home by Carrie Underwood makes me sadd
fear	tweets	nervous about going out tomorrow, cos its the first time since my daughter was born, she's 2!!! HELP
fear	tweets	@Pworldwide no I didn't
fear	tweets	Why does Urban Outfitters taunt me with amazing clothing that's way too expensive.
fear	tweets	my son got stung by a bug for the first time  his little finger is slightly swollen.
sadness	tweets	Mid shifts are so awful. Im just counting down time
sadness	tweets	@amillerwvu- you're going to be mad. i got sent to the office by your sub. and our class was really bad after that, i hear. i'm sorry.
fear	tweets	Really tired JAKe always gives me more work
fear	tweets	Head hurts bad
sadness	tweets	paper work on a friday afternoo
fear	tweets	Headed home ... Charlie's at the vet
fear	tweets	@ellenmoore08 I would if I was home
fear	tweets	I think I may have frozen my butter by accident.
fear	tweets	had a great time out in the beer garden wit the boyos !! I think the sun got to me a bit though, feel a bit ill !!
fear	tweets	Sad that the Statue of Liberty will completely reopen 2 weeks after our NYC trip.
fear	tweets	Can't stop coughing
fear	tweets	Stupid HomeWork Is A Waste Of My Time !
fear	tweets	@jpadamson I certainly know the feeling. Wesley is sleeping and I want to go get something to eat but I only have $4.38 in my account
fear	tweets	@MrsNewlywed what happened? I missed 4 hours of updates
fear	tweets	At Marlees doc appointment poor babygirl has to get shots
fear	tweets	sore head..hope my girls ok
sadness	tweets	can't go to the movies today
sadness	tweets	@Maxicatimus Miles from you   I'm in Essex so give me plenty of warning so I can arrive in time to get at least one of those free beers.
sadness	tweets	Bit down in the dumps today    Such an awful day !  Maybe good time to write a song   (Y)
sadness	tweets	No 'rosie day' today  goal is to leav my house b4 my mom gets here hmmm maybe 'rosie day' rescheduled for....wed......
sadness	tweets	I just got smashed in the face by a 5th grader thowing a football... Twice. Now I bleed
fear	tweets	Nearly ran over a pheasant on the driving lesson  Baws.
sadness	tweets	Lulu's put on scottish accent on britains got more talent makes me sad to be scottish  just coz falconers there dont play up your accent!
fear	tweets	oww...just bit my tongue
fear	tweets	anyone else having a problem accessing their account info on the istore?  i cant buy music and cant look at my account
fear	tweets	I have uncontrolable hic-ups right now that hurt
fear	tweets	@ThisStarChild *uhum* try that again - unlike the pretty women on here I just don't look 21 any more
fear	tweets	14 hours later, I am still too drunk to drive... For shame on me for letting myself drink that much. I am not in peak spirits right now.
fear	tweets	Okay, the man with the hook for a hand is kinda freaking me out right now.
fear	tweets	@SweetChhavvi sick girl!  trying to shake this thing off but no luck .. How are you miss long time..
sadness	tweets	Is bummed out...i don't have even one testimonial on Flickr.
fear	tweets	My lower-left molar stings whenever it comes into contact with sugar of any sort
sadness	tweets	Oh god, I feel like shit.
sadness	tweets	Everythings Sooo Messed Up!!!!!!! Life Sucks!!!!!!!!!!
fear	tweets	@JamieBolerjack still here unfortunately!!!!
fear	tweets	I feel sick. And I have a solo tonight at my vocal jazz concert.  great
fear	tweets	I've got a headache  !!!
sadness	tweets	can't chat with @mitchelmusso since i have to go to school now  http://tinyurl.com/mf88dz
sadness	tweets	@EnvyAmor I'm sad that I missed you guys last night!
fear	tweets	Uh oh, I am sunburned
fear	tweets	I didn't get the job at Berry Line after all.
sadness	tweets	just drove by NBC's Burbank lot and the line for Leno is wrapped around the building.  Longest I've ever seen. Leno's last show
sadness	tweets	8 of my 11 followers are random spammers
sadness	tweets	Theyre sappin mah sentry! errr yea... i'm without power at home right now
fear	tweets	Working 12 hours saturday and sunday  atleast i'll have my phone to keep me company..
sadness	tweets	hollie steel on bgt was absolutely excruciating to watch...poor girl.
sadness	tweets	Sad that I won't see Deb for two days.
fear	tweets	@CameronMonroe_x Hey &quot;Cameron&quot;, I know it was amazing and I have sunburn too  So my mum isn't happy,, . &amp; my throat kills . . Still &lt;3 it
fear	tweets	I hope I make it to the bank before it closes. Ahhh traffic! And then I have to go back to work.
sadness	tweets	@scomizzle ur moving to leeds?? wut are u doing up there? work? ur just a jetsetter..i wanna move to England too
fear	tweets	my feet hurt
sadness	tweets	I want to go home!!
fear	tweets	@SamDescartes  Laws change in the 70s or 80s.   I could really push it bcause gran from Bathgate, but she was US citizen b4 dad born.
sadness	tweets	@Zo_E Aw. well im sorry you don't like July for those reasons
sadness	tweets	is sad that greg pritchard didnt make it through to the final of britains got talent coz he soooo deserved it
sadness	tweets	So I thought the Cavs would crush the Magic and I come home from up north to realize how wrong I was.
fear	tweets	Doesn't feel like working out.  @ 12th Street Gym http://loopt.us/OGqB5w.t
sadness	tweets	Lost his favorite thing he loves to always have on him, his story of the year Key Chain..
fear	tweets	@Mattwerkmeister heyy have you deleted your myspace account  cause the link in the side bar wont work it says its been deleted wb ily xxx
sadness	tweets	Sad news, after a week in the hospital, My uncle past away today. R.I.P. Uncle Tony
fear	tweets	Subhana Allah... I got scare told you i started having anxiety
sadness	tweets	@daltnnn woof, I wish I was allowed to go
sadness	tweets	Well school's finally over and idk but I'm sad  I'll miss my teachers. Goodbye Mrs R. and Mr. Collister
fear	tweets	feels really sick after eating some form of chicken. Why do restaurants make their grilled chicken sooo greasy
fear	tweets	has to be in cockermouth for 8:45 tomorrow morning, jesus christ i want sleep
fear	tweets	the sing store won't work.
sadness	tweets	I wish I could go to the Love Music Hate Racism gig this weekend   I'm not in the right part of the world even
sadness	tweets	ready for the weekend and sad that I have to be at the office again tomorrow morning
sadness	tweets	@PeachyPictures oh dear, I take back my request.... I get so drunk on fizz!! And I def do regret it the next day, sure fired hangover
sadness	tweets	so now i dont get my car back til monday. boooo
fear	tweets	My dad and Joe Nugent drank nearly all the Ice Tea  i only have a bit left. quite miffed tbh
sadness	tweets	has hurt feet
fear	tweets	Seeing people today made me realize I really miss someone. But I also miss my grandpa he's been gone 17 years  oh! but my moms mamagra ...
fear	tweets	feeling hot hot hot! honestly us scots are so not used to sun the minute we get some, we fry!!  x
sadness	tweets	has cramps
sadness	tweets	@CarsXCollide: no, I fell and effed my arm up today and now I have to do back drive.
sadness	tweets	Fml! Ughhhhhhhhh, im not going anwhere today just sit in the bedroom I share with my mother and cry!
fear	tweets	@gregkang ah allergies  you must be sleeping walking at work!
fear	tweets	@ox_grace I can't do anything
sadness	tweets	REALLY want to go to Maker Faire tomorrow but I am SO SICK.  #makerfaire
fear	tweets	@DC_Zol I would like to make a comment about the password but I can't on this medium
fear	tweets	@samigrady traumatizing moment of my childhood. my dogs massacred baby bunnies and my brother and i got out the bb gun...
fear	tweets	@Sam_Fenton i didnt even finish cleaning my room cuz i went to a party ahhhh  ITS STILL MESSY
sadness	tweets	Wish you were here, babe
fear	tweets	gives you a Haiku status (inspired by Michelle Yuen)  the sun is shining a perfect day glorious day outside my office
fear	tweets	Where's my baby?!
fear	tweets	Alcohol  toncilitus  but alcohol cancels it out
sadness	tweets	BGT made me cry tonight
sadness	tweets	Failed that shit LOL
sadness	tweets	He can't fix it.   I guess I'll write until I get too bored then watch tv. Man, this is lame.
sadness	tweets	@nkirchmar I have 30 minutes to go! Then a 3 day weekend leading up to my birthday on Tuesday. I have to work on my birthday.
fear	tweets	stoped broadcasting on blogtv coz they all left  and was on my own and one one came any way xD
sadness	tweets	@karleemay @Kelly208 I am horror movie obsessed. Esp campy 80s films and Troma. Wish I didn't work tomorrow
fear	tweets	Today was not an inspirational photography day  #photography -  http://twurl.nl/jnizbw
sadness	tweets	@cassieebee Why I aint on ur #FF list? im hurt
sadness	tweets	@kmaco214 He's probably in bed...depends on what aide he has today.
fear	tweets	Would appear not  note to self...change perfume!  What to do now..Hmm do I get the tarot cards out or not??
sadness	tweets	i miss everyone... i need faces  , not witty situational updates, but these will do...
fear	tweets	You people haVe no idea how depressing it is being at a steakhouse and not being able to eat
sadness	tweets	Left Cali this morning...in Dallas now..missing my car SO MUCH!!!
fear	tweets	The graduation ceremony should be starting about now. I really wish I could be there.
fear	tweets	Someone keyed my car.
fear	tweets	I am sad because I broke my super-awesome giant paper clip I was using for my Italy notes
fear	tweets	i need to read @lizzie123x fic again, but i lost it
fear	tweets	@kiyoshimartinez - 05/31 marks the end of our roommate era. And you never made me empanadas again.
fear	tweets	@binhog737 Sorry about the weather, hopefully you're not in the 2-3 hour wx delays here in BWI
sadness	tweets	i'm sad...i'll miss you grandma angie.. you were always like a 3rd grandma to me..
fear	tweets	@simoncowelI got really sad wen holly started crying   awwww bless
sadness	tweets	@KOifusionpdx Another day and I couldn't find you.    I ended up trying another cart, can't remember their name.  'sigh'
fear	tweets	no longer works at swiss chalet
fear	tweets	This weekend is going to be packed full of work for school  No life this summer I'm afraid.
fear	tweets	@_finn_ Except I dropped him on my break and now he's got a ding in his side.  At least it wasn't the screen.
sadness	tweets	@gotenkslovesme haha yeh lol maybe.  i missed the last roadshow cause of rain
fear	tweets	i cant believe that its already friday! omg, what had i done?!
sadness	tweets	hello..aint been tweetin all day cuz i had 2 switch things over 2 da new place. (exhausted and sick)
fear	tweets	@FilmsRUs oh 2mrw? Yea I won't b there  but maybe next time
fear	tweets	If you're going to actually read them you have to at least sign up  no fair!
fear	tweets	@pen15lvr they frown on us googling alcohol at work
sadness	tweets	ahhhh now i have no pic
fear	tweets	I have the biggest headache ever. My photosensitivity is getting OUT OF CONTROL!! Help.
fear	tweets	misses Nanny.
fear	tweets	I miss my doggy,my hammy,my turtle &amp;&amp; my fishes
sadness	tweets	ouch... head hurts
fear	tweets	still have a high fever
sadness	tweets	God! They look stumpy... I'm not sharing my toes tonight
fear	tweets	I kind of miss a certain someone already.  and, i never get to see him again.
fear	tweets	Dropping my mum at the station   I'll miss u mum
fear	tweets	@mona_tweets I wish I could be there to give you the biggest hug right now. I'm so sorry, I can't imagine how painful it must be
fear	tweets	Do I really look like the gay guy with the dark hair and sleeve from #BGT dreambears?
sadness	tweets	@AZamann hah eeee, although understandable.. i need a new picture for this thing.. but i'm all sweaty
fear	tweets	@rainofashes I would never do that to an innocent individual, plus it's really unsanitary
sadness	tweets	Aaarrrgh! I sooo want to see @johnlegend at MSG in August but dammit the decent seats are expensive. Booooooo recession!
sadness	tweets	@diana_music im always blunt with my feelings, never seems to do any good
fear	tweets	@annaavila oh noooo.. dont cry  we'll see.. ill talk to krys... text her and see what she says.. we're both pooped.. so idk.
fear	tweets	wtf at facebook spam saying that my DAD is my secret admirer
fear	tweets	whats wrong with you, my sweet laptop!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	Strained a muscle in my lower back today. &amp;*#&amp; it hurts! What hurts most is .. no running this weekend.
sadness	tweets	Sad duck day.
sadness	tweets	@jpadamson don't wait on Red, could be ages. I know what you mean, though. Really looking for a new job
fear	tweets	im getting really spotty and my spots ALWAYS scar... and NO its not because i pick them, even if i dont,they scar- FACT  my skin sucks
sadness	tweets	@Japumpy I need botox work on the lips if I'm going to change my name to Angelina Jolie, but it's a thought! Sad though about the racism
fear	tweets	always makes bad decisions
fear	tweets	gettin ready to put on a show  ugh i really hope ppl dont comee
sadness	tweets	nooooo its raining......had 2 leave the beach
fear	tweets	@EvilKimIsEvil I was sad to hear they shaved too  I really liked the beards. I feel like I'm in the minority.
fear	tweets	Tweet riot. I can't download Tweet Genius on my other device
fear	tweets	@ amhzz... did u get an invite? I miss u
fear	tweets	Not feeling all that well today
fear	tweets	Oh man now it's raining...seatbelt now buckled...thanks bates for wishing I have a blow out and flip and burn up
fear	tweets	. @LauraLeeShaw Will have to try.  Our Pei Wei closed so I can't try there.
fear	tweets	OMG i havent been on twitter all day  going thru withdraws
fear	tweets	hardware store guy told me the screw would be impossible to remove since the head is completely gone. will get a 2nd opinion
sadness	tweets	my day has been so crappy that i just want to cry.
fear	tweets	Ahhhhhhhhh man blew up my amp!!!!! no more shredding
sadness	tweets	wish I can go to the Roots pinic
sadness	tweets	@dorkita buu i didn't get it right  plop! i was so close... &quot;URBAN&quot;
sadness	tweets	@ABOResearch Pleased to hear it, but still I am shamed sometimes to hear what some men do
fear	tweets	my skin is burning up so much
fear	tweets	got through two thirds of new moon in three days, now on to eclipse..........then more work  assignments sadly dnt write them selves.
sadness	tweets	@vagabonddandy very bad.
fear	tweets	@BitchNotAPerson Actually, I'm supposed to do that w/ my dad + cousin, My cousin is in trouble though, so we never get together
sadness	tweets	@pibby  darn! now we have to go through the WHOLE weekend without em'
fear	tweets	@StephanieBamBam @tjtrapp I can't join your game... it's a private beta
sadness	tweets	OMG. Today felt like the last day of school! it's horrible!
sadness	tweets	@RyanDownie no problem dude - get better soon, I have a cold as well  bleh!
sadness	tweets	I want a hair cut but my mom wont cut it
fear	tweets	I'm not ditchin i'm barfin so sorry guys  ESOTSM;
fear	tweets	its too hot in my room. i wanna go swimming.
sadness	tweets	@thecraftykitten like cheesecake brownies!!! i miss my cheesecake brownies... and the walmart closest to l.a. (to me) doesn't have em
fear	tweets	#Ajax #php! Just thinking about a concept of autorefresh! @varun_chander made a mistake here
fear	tweets	YAY jack won. but downer i've just remembered its friday meaning i have work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	what the hell is follow friday?? don't get it
fear	tweets	@Direct2Dell  my mini 10 order is delayed again.  Can I call to add the TV tuner for $20 more??
sadness	tweets	Ugh. My feet feel like they're going to fall off.
fear	tweets	@PaulaAbdul I was supposed to go boating/songwriting in Cape Cod.. but its cold and rainy
fear	tweets	Omg! Why cant i eat. Everything i eat hurts my stomach and it comes right out of me.
fear	tweets	@gail_collins I'm not sure I understand how this twitter thing works...
sadness	tweets	@kelleyviolet That sucks!    It's thundering here.  I'm getting ready to shut down.
fear	tweets	@thomasfiss i flew from washington to calfornia , are you still gonna be at the meet&amp;  greet tomorrow ?
sadness	tweets	im so tired of my responsabilities i wish i was a kid it seems that everyone around me is all about money and not me anymore
fear	tweets	Anyway. Can't take this shit no longer. Or my mind will blow off.
fear	tweets	I'm soooooooo hungry right now. DH is still not home.
fear	tweets	Soo tired! Feel worn out. Want to go to sleep but gotta go back out
sadness	tweets	@AncillaTilia Me tooo!! Wish I could get you here
sadness	tweets	I need a friend right now  , I feel like mmmm ... sosad
sadness	tweets	On the set of Chuck Bass' New York Palace Hotel. Too bad they weren't filming today.   http://twitpic.com/67nht
sadness	tweets	@Marianuum Ntah, I really wanna be there
fear	tweets	@LadyHaych Totally agree, she wasn't even as good as the judges said wither! Just said it to make her feel better
sadness	tweets	@AnnaInTheHouse Dude I feel really bad but it doesn't work. I don't have a serial for it so it can't be used
sadness	tweets	@elephantparty Ha! Thanks Bryan! And don't remind me about the state budget issues.  Actually, Steve only has 6 staffers in 3 offices.
fear	tweets	Headache.  Very. Large. Headache.  A little dizzy and feel ill too.    Yucky.
sadness	tweets	Awww kanye west, its such a shame he doesnt get the joke
fear	tweets	@kiks956 aww  i hope u find it soon i miss it. i cnt even use my cam w/o it, memory's full. plus i wanna take it 2 SA this commin weekend.
fear	tweets	@NauticaThorn I love you, but I don't love twitter   Hey, are you going to Xbiz?  It's in VEGAS!
sadness	tweets	@RareCandy I wanna go but my car not here...
fear	tweets	right im out of here peeps.. i hope @twitter fixes twitter mobile so i can tweet from the race.. m.twitter has been down for 4 days  #fail
fear	tweets	omg!! i have so many finals to study for !!! i so freaked out that im gona fail
sadness	tweets	i'm sunburnt on my arms, and i have burnt my mouth, and some skin is coming off
fear	tweets	Done! Goin home to eat dindin and contemplate what the night holds for me
sadness	tweets	@ROAR_Fear_Me samee.. it sucks..
sadness	tweets	Not feeling very good at all, why does this have to happen today of all days? Not going to friends tonight
fear	tweets	Metro from trader joe to 71st closed so many firemen and cops wth happened?! Walking home bus can't go further  ohh
fear	tweets	@EileenLeft I am disappointed in the lad. I think he unfollowed me. @ryking is not showing me the love.
fear	tweets	BRAINFREEZE
fear	tweets	@pillowfarmer So sorry about all that  praying for you
sadness	tweets	@thewbdotcom Sadly, I can't view that site due to region restrictions
fear	tweets	@coollike Sounds awesome, wish I could go but no way I could afford it   Have fun!
sadness	tweets	@WOAHAmber But I hate being me
sadness	tweets	I miss you
fear	tweets	i never though i'd be in this situation. i don't like it. at all.
sadness	tweets	@susiegroove yes i did - as a thank you. have contacted them 2ce but no response
fear	tweets	@dvautier Burst my bubble!
fear	tweets	@TraceyMmm awww  what did you eat sweety?
sadness	tweets	so sad that no friends everyday for a long ass time
sadness	tweets	I miss my friends so much
fear	tweets	Is sad that her brother is having a bad day
fear	tweets	oops just unfollowed everyone!  anywayz, will build my Twitter Empire.... again....
sadness	tweets	Pleeaaasee come out sun
sadness	tweets	@mathewhulbert There's very few film/TV jobs, especially in WMids. And I can't afford to move away yet!  Sorry, I missed you on 107.3!
sadness	tweets	damn sunburn hurting  jack whitehall mmmmm
fear	tweets	has to go to sleep but is not sleepy at all!!
sadness	tweets	My car is broken.
sadness	tweets	@H2_TheMovie That's what I get for writing up my Halloween interview w/ Danielle Harris. Darn, I was too late for the contest!
sadness	tweets	Crisis: forgot my fringe comb  I'm with men....no one will help me
fear	tweets	@ThisStarChild Night you. Damn did I give you #ff? If not, sorry, I will do a late one tomorrow. I always forget someone  night xxx
fear	tweets	OK, when will this post RNY girl learn; rich sugary food is a BAD idea! No more golden graham bars out of the vending machine. Bleck!
fear	tweets	@Chriscornell why isnt everyone with you?
fear	tweets	At the dentist for Hopes first check up. Lets she how she handles a dentist.
fear	tweets	Super bummed the Whitecaps game plans with friends fell through...I now need to be home by 7 to let the sitter go
fear	tweets	dedicating the next 2 hours to cleaning the house
fear	tweets	went to the doctors for a physical (including blood work -_-) and the eye doctors for new glasses.
sadness	tweets	@danger_skies You got me singing Falling in Love now. Only, I'm changing the week day to Saturday. Doesn't quite fit.
fear	tweets	Frustrated with life on a whole new level  Trying to trust God in all of this.
fear	tweets	@jwphillips I have no IPhone (poor credit!).    But I cannot live without my cell phone! I am on mass transit every day!
sadness	tweets	I can't fucking concentrate with this damn heat!  Cooler is so not doing it's job.
sadness	tweets	@aquafreak123   me too.  it depresses me thinking about it.
sadness	tweets	@smiley92 u have a lot  but the bad thing is we r gonna have finals all next week
fear	tweets	super bored on a friday night
sadness	tweets	Almost made it to reading comedy outlet. Headlining all weekend. Only took me 2 extra hours with traffic. Basically doubled my time.
sadness	tweets	@TonyaRae @RachieRach3 Getting dizzy. Going to have to lower my original raise. Please don't think any less of me.
sadness	tweets	@valerierenee  are you having a bad day?
fear	tweets	@xirclebox Problem is I have to get it done this weekend one way or another.
fear	tweets	is sooo stressed about everything I have to do
fear	tweets	@john_370 i thought he was off until next week...i think we have another week to do his ohmygod please tell me with have another week
fear	tweets	Trying to find a foreign place in a foreign town  i have being lost
fear	tweets	@xoshayzers I'm sorry.
fear	tweets	is sad that today is her last day in san diego
sadness	tweets	my head is hurting..
fear	tweets	waiting around for boyfriend. then off to queens. ... looks like it's going to pour here in dt bklyn. umbrellaless
fear	tweets	@Rooks_ nooo  no roo crying. but omg i wanted to slap her. she was singing fine then from out of nowhere- BOOHOOOOOOOOOOO
sadness	tweets	Wishing I was going to UP tonight, but it will have to wait until tomorrow.
fear	tweets	@CHRIS_Daughtry  FYI Canada cannot see the VH1 preview of the video
sadness	tweets	I always feel sickly when I wake up.  Well got a busy day ahead of me! Yippeee
sadness	tweets	Not looking forward to next week: Maths, Geography, English and French exams, totalling 7 hours
fear	tweets	owww, back pain  hm, walmart or no? i could get cupcakes~
fear	tweets	i hope it doesnt rain tonight tomorrow my fam. comes to visit swimming pool and carne asada  if it rains the pool is going to be dirty
fear	tweets	The balmain knockoffs in bebe make me sad.....I want the real deal...these shoes look cheapy cheapy.
fear	tweets	i think my cold is getting worse, not better!!  i cant stop coughing - it really sucks!!
sadness	tweets	Damn. It's raining again
sadness	tweets	i hate when i paint my nails because then i cant suck my thumb because it tastes bad
sadness	tweets	@anothrstupidkid your lucky, you have a bed and ice cream, all i have is a very sore couch and some cardboard
sadness	tweets	karma is a bitch ! i just got hung up on  lol i'm still a big dawg though
fear	tweets	I don't know how to use twitter!!
fear	tweets	MAYDAY?!
fear	tweets	more work to do
fear	tweets	Sittin at the hospital with isaac cause he hit his head
fear	tweets	Feeling lonely and in need a a good friend
sadness	tweets	10) I'm allergic to hot wax
sadness	tweets	Awake and wishing I wasn't. Feel like my head may explode. Going to try to go back to sleep.
fear	tweets	I need my car back
sadness	tweets	Awe. were going to meijer. not walmart. walmarts better.
sadness	tweets	I'm too tired
fear	tweets	My legs are killing me now.  but i know it's a good pain all in all.
fear	tweets	Back from town and my Mac crashed on me  but it's better now
fear	tweets	I can't figure out the empire puzzle.  Stuck at 36
sadness	tweets	@miss_r I can't get one either because of the dog. I'm pretty sure the bunny wouldn't survive a struggle with Tom
fear	tweets	Dear co-worker, its great you don't want to smell, that's what deordant is for, not a bath in cologne
sadness	tweets	I wanna watch &quot;UP&quot; so badly!
sadness	tweets	Finally got my money. Too bad it goes to bills
sadness	tweets	@empirebetty Well I can tell you I didn't marry my like. Maybe that's why I'm stuck in situations like I am now
sadness	tweets	@tom_pollard Never. I'm banned by Court Order
fear	tweets	@VestaEresta: Geez, a cool man like him be the villains. Too bad
fear	tweets	Took a kind-of nap, too. My tummy hurts.
fear	tweets	@charrrbabyy I know!!  effing embarrassing! Eff our lives
sadness	tweets	@cosmicgirlie Car not happy, big big dent in boot! Hoping theyre not going to write it off, crossing fingers and waiting
fear	tweets	Ugh,what a boring day
fear	tweets	wanna b marie antoinette, cos she had perfect hairdo, fab clothes, n tons of macarons.  Crappy day
fear	tweets	So... Inconclusive. There's still a chance i'll need surgery. I see the doctor again in 3 weeks for more x-rays.
sadness	tweets	Jus chillin and doin my hrs. Friday afternoons tend to end up &quot;busy&quot;
fear	tweets	WHY CANT I FIND IT!!!
fear	tweets	Just found a tink cover for a wii remote but the people i know dont have a wii  fail
sadness	tweets	@kingivn Have fun amorsote even tho u forgot my bday which is today
fear	tweets	@meg_la_mania  it worries me: we read nasty stories about murder, paedophilia and disfigurement and only get upset about animal cruelty.
sadness	tweets	@SeattleWillow Well I am at work.   But Leah might be doing something with Embry.
fear	tweets	@hamoke: these lecturing, book-worm beasts, out for a noble cause. . .why can't they just be normal
fear	tweets	@OfficialBB  Will we be able to see clips/episodes on the C4 website from America?  Or will I languish reading the news stories again?
fear	tweets	@CThun @regent_lord Can't we just all get along?
fear	tweets	.....headache
sadness	tweets	All the food in my house has sugar ants in it
fear	tweets	@AngelIVXXX I tried to DM you but your not following me
fear	tweets	@myrewyn oh no! Poor thing keep us posted.
fear	tweets	@Juicytots yay!! we'll all move!! sorry dh is being Grr...  xx
sadness	tweets	so bored without a camera
fear	tweets	Just got back from the grocery store. Now I'm starving and can't find anything to eat!
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67ofz - ugh grosss
fear	tweets	@hoperana nigel really enjoyed it, but he's got a big scratch on his side that inexplicably appeared afterwards...
fear	tweets	Computer remains dead
sadness	tweets	@AngieBeyince damn no dublin
fear	tweets	This world makes me sad
fear	tweets	on lookbook craving everyones clothes  i want a pencil skirt so baddd, someone send me one
sadness	tweets	Now every Saturday till 8/4 for work.  sucks. And no Friday or Monday off for July 4th either.
sadness	tweets	In 14 hours im taking 2 aerobics classes with only about 30 min break in between
sadness	tweets	thinks its the perfect weather to go camping and cuddle up with dave under the stars and sleep
sadness	tweets	No clubbing for me this weekend due to a busted knee  &lt;emo&gt;Life's unfair&lt;/emo&gt;
fear	tweets	i really want to ring @mitchelmusso but it costs 2 much  dam you credit crunch
fear	tweets	@Argyle_SocksO_o: I'm sorry, Shannon.
fear	tweets	@Sarawkweird I think that's pretty awesome. I could quote LOTR:ROTK for one summer, but now I can't anymore.
sadness	tweets	@andyschwartz nah, i didn't actually sleep  the data recovery place called and woke me up
fear	tweets	I'm so getting the cold
sadness	tweets	my arms hurt!
fear	tweets	Feel quite down, not quite sure why though :s so going to bed  night everyone x
sadness	tweets	@Vukizzle sadly my corporate giant employer won't let me get to that site...
sadness	tweets	is about to go to gymnastics! my last day with this class!
sadness	tweets	&lt;--has no internet for the weekend
sadness	tweets	saw a dead bird on my way to work!what a kind of day to start?! Poor little bird!
fear	tweets	@Jesse236  I don't have any from you
sadness	tweets	Not so good at remembering to do this twitter thing, sorry everybody! I leave for Tibet today...with a head cold
fear	tweets	@joyzaphine Ouch! Sunburn's bad! Hope it's not to sore on your bedding, that's always the problem.
fear	tweets	@phunybuny @iamtheplague Wow.  I hope he gets better... cancer can GTFO.
fear	tweets	sorry dunners just saw your tweet! totally let you down im so sorry babe  was at work till 8.30 very boooooo
sadness	tweets	@melissaar I know you didn't agree with. It just angered me. Sorry for going postal.
fear	tweets	Ever since Orchid quit drinking from a bottle, she's been eating us out of house and home! Holy crap girl! Still not drinking milk though
fear	tweets	@DoMeZydrate I agree. I missed a LOT while I was away and busy and now it's like a whole new place
sadness	tweets	@BoomKatt  i want more but its just so bittersweet lol
sadness	tweets	@lrntoswim Thx for #followfriday ... I'm afraid I've been remiss with my blips lately.
sadness	tweets	Just an observation: Aside from the riverwalk, there are pretty much no cute girls in downtown sa
sadness	tweets	Sorry, It's hard finding Imeem free stuff  rb@Deesound: like that David Starfire but will like it more with a... ? http://blip.fm/~7a9fu
sadness	tweets	Poor Greg  stupid UK, always doing the sympathy vote. xo
fear	tweets	Needs to learn lines for show, else director is going to kick my butt
fear	tweets	My husband just went fishing   How come knitting keeps you at home?  I need a lady hobby that lets me get out of cooking.
fear	tweets	My baby has his first busted lip.
fear	tweets	@ritzybee yes - it has put a damper on us &quot;getting to know&quot; Georgetown! Instead he is watching tv and I am catching up on invoices.
fear	tweets	I smashed my pinky in julia's car door... Fuck my life...
sadness	tweets	@justkaty guess I missed out on more than beer and a good time
fear	tweets	Not  looking forward to next   wednesday at all
fear	tweets	@TferThomas so did you watch?  I'd forgottenmost of it, enjoyed re-seeing it, but paying for it today, my face doesnt bounce back anymore
sadness	tweets	Tired. Going to take a nap. My finger hurts.  143
fear	tweets	Daddy just left.................without me  http://yfrog.com/13pdrmj
sadness	tweets	My grandparents cat may die... I love that cat. I swear if he goes... / / /
sadness	tweets	My ex makes me cry. I wish I was stronger
fear	tweets	actually, i like almost everything about my job right now. except the part where it's not permanent
sadness	tweets	@feliciaodg  it does but the screen is dark - so when i click it, i hang up on whoever im talking to
sadness	tweets	@thebigmac cool. my boobs itch. got sunburned at the volcano
sadness	tweets	@Rubios_BeachMex Can't DM you since you don't follow me.
fear	tweets	bored bored bored! wish i had something to do tomorrow, especially with the weather we're to have!  not fair
sadness	tweets	@TheMikeKelly Sorry Mike, was assuming it was music that was missing..I don't know then.. a mystery..
sadness	tweets	I miss talkin turkey.  I REALLY MISS TALKIN TURKEY.
fear	tweets	Traffic along McArthur!  okay, keeping my eyes on the road and my hands on the phone, err, steering wheel.
fear	tweets	I feel bad over everything..  How can I be so stupid? Why was I so harsh? Its my fault, I know it. I'm sorry SaVvy, love you guys&lt;3
fear	tweets	so upset
sadness	tweets	Seems really quiet tonight...am jealous of those who are clearly having a more exciting life than me   Off to bed I think...
fear	tweets	has a tummy ache
fear	tweets	yeah its Friday! I thought my sis was coming into town turns out she is not!!  so sad! i miss my babies!!!
sadness	tweets	@joshjnap I'm honestly incredibly upset we couldn't make it. Devestated even. We would have lost a whole travel day and it just sucks
fear	tweets	That sucks that u have 2 go through that  id b pissed 2
sadness	tweets	OFF TOPIC: missed both motorcades. The secret service tricked us all.  #bush #clinton
fear	tweets	Stuck in awful traffic in the way to the wedding. Ceremony is supposed to start now. Ughhh.
fear	tweets	Got my report card back- I was at 88 for my average and i went down to 82  now I have to kick it up a notch!!!
fear	tweets	@jaykpurdy awww poor jayk. :[ try to make the drive fun.and eat something soon!have a great show tonight i wish i could go,i live too far
fear	tweets	I think Max (my cat) may really be gone
sadness	tweets	Is going to sleep now
fear	tweets	@KidCalloway SOWWY  I had 2 get up at 6:30 this morning
sadness	tweets	@the_sandman_ @grave_wounds @hursty02 @samvoaden I miss you guys SO much  xx
fear	tweets	Ahhhhhh i feel ill , i dont think i should drink :L lmaoo
fear	tweets	learning all about non-payment from a client.  For a new business this is a headache I was hoping to avoid
sadness	tweets	@rawr_333 Yeah.    I couldn't call my Dad, Mom, or brother either.  Mom = On the phone.  Dad = Phone card expired.  Brother = At work.
fear	tweets	my phone died  and i really need to go home to do my recap for @capstreetteam from last night! aiyaiyah! hate running errands
fear	tweets	@Brandystrippers OI, are you mocking the fact I dont cry at tv things?!  *Feels bad*xxx
fear	tweets	soo fucking stressed out...I think I could possibly lose it
fear	tweets	av ad a realy gd day wiv Ciara Connolly at  park gate west kirby and new brighton.. fukin funny bt sunburnt.. luks like drivers arm
fear	tweets	j. alexanders... i'm sorry nintendo, but if i'm in a collared shirt then chances are you're staying home tonight
sadness	tweets	@bogwhoppit Aw  yes we had it out for weeks got asked to return it in end! I wish they had just bought it for me! never mind ??
fear	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Oh, you poor thing!!    So sorry, babe....
fear	tweets	@alex_lpz yeah text me!!! i wnat to go!!!!! but my car is broken!!
sadness	tweets	What I'm gonna do  life is not good:'( no more Exit in this hallway I'm stuck in my world...
fear	tweets	@Jennvy Hey sorry this is late, I leave in 30 min  raincheck...tomorrow?
fear	tweets	Damn if there is anytime I need my car... its now! Dammit
sadness	tweets	One of the most random phone calls ever. My god kill me now.
fear	tweets	@siansburys I've lost count of the number I've rung today already    Were going to Wales, but I'm due in court on monday!
fear	tweets	I don't like thunder. And neither does the doggy.
fear	tweets	ugh!!! i hate my life! no one is hiring! *sigh* stupid economy.... stupid bush
fear	tweets	My cat is anorexic
fear	tweets	@VintnersCellar If only they weren't in Shelby Twp
fear	tweets	@Jamiebower  you should come to Chile and your band too;) why everything  happens far away from here?? lol we're losing good live music!
fear	tweets	@BPVorsight thx for the suggestion - I don't think it'll be easy to convince her cold calling isn't aweful tho
fear	tweets	Trips are soooo not fun when you're sick
fear	tweets	Holy cheese sending things to the motherland is muy caro
sadness	tweets	@lulion07 i'm praying for you. Sorry to hear about your bro, man
fear	tweets	why I love so much, why your make me smile all the time? why your so special but i cant have u  ? I got scared to try.
sadness	tweets	I just banged my elbow and its bleeding  owwiee
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso Not allowed to call as I live in the UK, my parents say it will cost to much  Sucks !!
sadness	tweets	i wish i was in Jonathon Ross' audience right now
sadness	tweets	just watched BGT on catch up, aw i felt so sorry for holly
fear	tweets	@martinhavlat aww that sounds sad
sadness	tweets	@niqa86 I miss you too, Mojokins! I go there, but not long enough to comment  Will do more this weekend!
fear	tweets	Doing my fieldwork databook. Slept awkwardly. Bones all sore.
fear	tweets	throat is reallyyyyy sore , i can barely talk
fear	tweets	@Clareies I'm 25 in december that's not good at all next big birthday is 30  after 21 it flys by for sure
fear	tweets	MY BEST FRIEND IN THE FUCKING WORLD IS MOVING AHHHHHHHHHHH wat am i 2 do im not a happy camper
fear	tweets	please do not let me get obsessed, whatever or whoever is in charge of my actions  you've been doing such a bad job lately
sadness	tweets	Shit night. want john  where is he?
sadness	tweets	And Jenny is so gorgeous --' PFFFF i love her style, i want her outfits
fear	tweets	@PatBrough I've been there.  The only place I have flown out of since moving up north. Really pretty area for flying, but very expensive
fear	tweets	Just got caught in the down pour
fear	tweets	so we got our cap&amp;gowns today! senior year is coming to an end soo fayst!
fear	tweets	@AdidasGoddess19 HAHA Amen! Im sooo damn hungry... And I hate knowing my weekends gonna be shit, when its supposed to be great
fear	tweets	@DreamingMyth why not?
sadness	tweets	so tired.   only need to be here another 30 minutes.
sadness	tweets	@jdrydenUK Yeah, It's not available on Public market yet. but will be soon. looking forward. I'm sunburnt  arms are itching. boo hoo!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	hanging out with Rex, missing Alabama and my Nanna already...
sadness	tweets	@Mitchelmusso: Am sad i got no money on my phone. Ahh well  lly Mitchel xx
fear	tweets	Checkin out oramarecords.com. Got a fever and cnt sleep
sadness	tweets	watching &quot;la rosa de guadalupe&quot; damm this episode is so true they are people that make fun of the people that are virgins
fear	tweets	@ragavin  is there anything Brian or I can do?
fear	tweets	@TattedHairGuy I'm sorry to hear about your uncle. I hope you're okay!
fear	tweets	Freakin' frustrated why can't my coach realize that times are hard ain't nobody got the money to buy cookie dough for no new uniforms
sadness	tweets	Everyone is working tonight! I'm bored
fear	tweets	@vanriper so how's the new gphone?! I guess I should have signed up to go to google io after all
fear	tweets	I am sad... Tanner wasn't invited to the Panthers development camp this year  Poor (other) Glassers. But Calla was, so good on him.
fear	tweets	@marshallsheldon Probably not a good idea, its hard to tweet on the web, I miss Tweetdeck!  *cry*
sadness	tweets	@RetroRewind awwww i cried...makes me cry  i love joey!
fear	tweets	@ddlovato it's quite hard cause when you attempt to spread it, the cornbread falls apart...
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso it wont work in the uk
sadness	tweets	just watched terminator 2 and i cried, Its the one movie that makes me cry for some reason when arnie dies!  im lame!
fear	tweets	@Christe1 So sad. Your mom must be very shaken up. Peace and strength to her and the dear family that lost their little girl
sadness	tweets	HA! I'd give Kristen plenty of free hugs! *sigh* if only I could
sadness	tweets	@deanm1987 Hey twit! Just watched poor Holly on Britains Got Talent  poor thing!! People are so mean - she only a 10 year old little girl!
sadness	tweets	listening to music...feeling kind of down
fear	tweets	Head--&gt;ache.
fear	tweets	@AdamSchwabe http://twitpic.com/67owu - Nice - I had tickets for tonight's game, but I'm staying home sick
sadness	tweets	i really really hate biology , u______________________u
sadness	tweets	@lonejohnny awwww  I'll be waiting then, hope it doesn't rain
sadness	tweets	Damm it! I didn't get a pic of niamh with her 3D glasses on
sadness	tweets	@Wossy @juleskaos good show ... And the killers rock ... But they cut em short
sadness	tweets	Missing how it used to be
fear	tweets	I didn't get my q'doba today! sad
sadness	tweets	Watching the Killers on JR. They are awesome. Too late though. They just cut the programme mid song. Twas my favourite too.
sadness	tweets	So lathargic... Definitely need today to rest. Sad bout havin to call out but mentally i needed to
fear	tweets	@Katizzle hehe yeah! but too late hun
sadness	tweets	is so tired ive walked 6.05 kilometres today
sadness	tweets	@deviantlysweet so neat hearing U on kiddshow today wish I was there
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso i wish i could call but i live in the uk and i don't have the cash to call
fear	tweets	@tropigalia I know, I stink at birthdays  sorry bra, hope you're having fun anyhow, in spite of me!
fear	tweets	The book bloggers panel is not listed anywhere in the program!   Be there tomorrow at 2pm in room 1E15.  #BEA09
sadness	tweets	Omg guys my internet has been down the whole day  It's still not working  I'll try fix 2m
fear	tweets	I have ants in my apartment
sadness	tweets	@PHXPhoto No kidding there! Ugh ... One thing I know for sure - it won't be me showing the property this weekend
fear	tweets	@thesmartplanner I so wish I could go to your blogging bootcamp in Knoxville this coming week! I'm so close but yet so far.
fear	tweets	Phone power is dying!
sadness	tweets	Sadness  The top horde guild that I liked disbanded.
sadness	tweets	Man my daddy left to work again  I never see him a lot I miss my daddy :' (
sadness	tweets	@hey_thomas if only the drinking game was tonight...I don't have to work till 5 tomorrow
fear	tweets	@heyagainlando Their inability to manage money, tough job market, and they're getting behind on bills. This is why no savings is bad
fear	tweets	I'm still recouperating from the holiday weekend, wow, I've never been sunburnt before, this really hurts
fear	tweets	Brianne. Can you call me when convenient? I don't have you # and am not near comp
fear	tweets	So not looking forward to hurricane season. 3 days until...
sadness	tweets	is watching &quot;Sicko&quot; and is utterly digusted with this country...
sadness	tweets	@Lisa_Nova we had it but we lost it  very sad 4 us cause we loved it
sadness	tweets	@Jayisfly Jess is invited just not me  I feel really unloved by u AND Aj right now hahaha!
fear	tweets	@faffyfoo Yeah ...  I don't know why that happened on this video...
sadness	tweets	waubonsie lost  they're out. i'm soo pissed
sadness	tweets	i think i just good stood up...
sadness	tweets	Shopping at sam's club in baton rouge. Mom brought step-dad to charity hospital so i cant go home yet  i had plans....
fear	tweets	my sleeping child does not want to wake up.....she will be up all night now
fear	tweets	@educatedlady lame
sadness	tweets	hey guys! nm just here half bored
sadness	tweets	@bobbiepen LMAO!!! Man I was so bummed when she stopped braiding
fear	tweets	@morgannJayy  lol...maybe for you...I still have to go in monday.
sadness	tweets	angry, sad, happy, excited, i hate how my moods change  right now i am immensely sad =\
sadness	tweets	@DWsRoseC i didn't have many in there, just 8, and the 1 that got deleted was just sent 2 days ago  and  i cried is on the rr... and i am
fear	tweets	@bowwow614 hey Bow when yu comin baxx 2 thaa 614 we miss yu hun  ...614 all day!!
fear	tweets	when is it gonna be nice out
sadness	tweets	Trying to install a vodafone internet key an an eeepc. I remember once it worked out of the box. But today it doesn't want to work
sadness	tweets	It's so hard to keep up with everything! There's the whole coldplaying, twitter, facebook and not to talk about real life... Impossible.
fear	tweets	Feeling like crap sucks.
sadness	tweets	@SodaKan sorry to hear about the wait list
fear	tweets	im sosososo sad, i should be seeing cory lamb in a few hours  i love that kid.
fear	tweets	isnt going to the movies!! i got grounded
fear	tweets	@ashleymshep yeah girl you betta be on twitter! i miss you. jealous of jen's limo ride
fear	tweets	@Kaylalallama:  She's going to beamer for the rest of high school. i'm so sad. there will be no more prn journal.
fear	tweets	@TessMorris I considered being a nurse when I was younger but I really don't think I could cope if a baby died
fear	tweets	my msn crashes way too much  hmph
fear	tweets	@Mitchelmusso: I sent you an other call me back message  x
fear	tweets	My back is all kinds of messed up, and Strudel is going to live in another town until we move, I'm going to miss the little runt
fear	tweets	New phone isn't syncing with my computer...I need numbers
sadness	tweets	Back from Miami. I miss South Beach
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso would love to talk to you but i live in England so unfair
fear	tweets	Freakin' HAWT guys at this restaurant...where I'm eating dinner with my father
fear	tweets	@LMStellaPR Must have been the night for it. We had a nightmare evening too. You still sick too? Never gonna get well w/out sleep!
sadness	tweets	battery is low boooooooo in Palm Springs, CA http://loopt.us/2SljBw.t
sadness	tweets	It is hot here in Texas and our ac upstairs is broken so its really hot at my house.
fear	tweets	Missed the WBC counterprotests.  But probably going to WaterFire with Ben, yay!
fear	tweets	@adamjackson Better than what I did to my MacBook keyboard yesterday! (Spilled a whole cup of hot chocolate on it.)
sadness	tweets	@thursdayband  We can't even call you from belgium  sucks
sadness	tweets	i miss my husband
fear	tweets	graduation is done  im a little sad.. anyone want to hang out???
sadness	tweets	life is so boring without you
fear	tweets	Realized that ManagingOnlineForums hasn't been reviewed on AMZN in May! I'd love if someone would share their thoughts! http://is.gd/JolG
fear	tweets	Is have a bad night at work.
fear	tweets	@ItsOneTen now you're scaring me.... can't you just be mad? Don't jip the world of your presence
sadness	tweets	@x_crazyangel Gah   But Gregg should have got the hot and talented vote, dammit!
sadness	tweets	@bowwow614 I would but I'm afraid I got two left feet
sadness	tweets	@honeyfaery @that_kat I've begged my mum to lt me get them out the attic.. but she wont let me  Waaa... and yes, was spoilt! hehe!
fear	tweets	can't sleep without my routine &quot;before-bed snack&quot;, but  to find that it comes along with a fatfat tummy.
fear	tweets	Aw. Torn ace of hearts  #Hunchback
fear	tweets	@Kikirowr Aw not again!  Feel better soon bb!
fear	tweets	Omg i here thunderrrr i wish i was home  i love cuddling with a blanky during a storm
sadness	tweets	Ughh from the filling in my tooth my ear is starting to ache ! What a life
sadness	tweets	@nicholasxjonas  you disappointed me
sadness	tweets	Ahhhhhh - software downloaded but can't get install file to work
sadness	tweets	@james__buckley Good for you mate, sadly I couldnt get pissed tonight fucking driving bad times
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67qv3 - Me at Forever 21  Ethan couldn't be there
sadness	tweets	Having one of my bad days....Migraine today. My 1st since my neck surgery about 2 1/2 months
fear	tweets	Poor Kella is on meds now for an ear infection; she lost her food all over @deannamichelle twice at the doc's
fear	tweets	Back is killing me, wish the pain would go away
fear	tweets	I think I have H1N1...     Or maybe just a cold.
sadness	tweets	Is really sad that shes missing critical mass
fear	tweets	@JYBeliever sore throat (like hurts to swallow) runny nose and constant sneezing
sadness	tweets	@sky14kemea There gone.  Now I'm going home.  Make me sad to leave the mall.
sadness	tweets	Smackdown is a lot more boring without Maria.
sadness	tweets	@DJGigiDred not fare lady, no body naps while I am at work
fear	tweets	im so tired  &amp;i miss dionee already.
fear	tweets	@jeweljk I can't get it to load for me.
fear	tweets	back to work tomorrow  whose idea was it to go back on a saturday?!? Oh wait... that would be mine. FAIL.
fear	tweets	@mollyissogyo I made room...I don't have a bed from how much room I made and now I'm outta space for sure lol, and I know I'm pathetic
fear	tweets	Im so depressed! I got an 80 on my global test
sadness	tweets	I sooooo miss Chinese takeout!
sadness	tweets	@kanoaofgomega our love goes out to you Kanoa  sorry for your loss dear
sadness	tweets	I hear tonight is the last jleno show
sadness	tweets	@hanaabanana i know!!!!!!!!! yopu only just got round to watching it?  i cried!!!!!
sadness	tweets	@darkmornan that was so disappointing
fear	tweets	hey @mitchelmusso i tried callin u but it wont let me
sadness	tweets	recovering from a hard day of homeschooling my dd, chemistry did NOT go well...
sadness	tweets	wow, there's still the void of whre thomas left  The heartache is never going to go away
fear	tweets	Wow, NOT free WiFi &amp;&amp; you have to pay for parking!? Reduculous!!!
sadness	tweets	Darn i dont have guitar tomorrow
sadness	tweets	ticked off cause i can't go see &quot;drag me to hell&quot; with melissa and amber. staying home on a friday night is NOT my thing.
fear	tweets	@ingridmusic whaaaaaat? oh no! why didn't I know you were here?
fear	tweets	@aAaAle  haha ...i'll let you know how the show was ... hope here in romania they will show it on Mtv.Sunday morning I have an exam
sadness	tweets	@PrettyGrl_Annie I can't  I'm goin outta twn 2night. Sorrrryyy
fear	tweets	My baby isnt online yet  booooo
fear	tweets	@willameda I really really hope that doesn't happen.
fear	tweets	@ebrettrubin i dont get one? fine! i say texting is way more meaningful than twittering
fear	tweets	Now, I regret not going to see Up today. Damn you, messy room.
fear	tweets	is at cindy babys house......taking in these last fridays we have together  DR!!! i hope
fear	tweets	T.G.I.F to bad i have to spend it in the E.R
fear	tweets	really don't mind (too much)) sittin @ standstill, listenin 2 music, twttrg. But the gas gauge isn't lookin healthy
fear	tweets	@nessa665 this creepy guy when I was walking the dog  I've had my fill of creepers for the day
fear	tweets	@LaurenConrad it says Lo's page doesnt exist
fear	tweets	Sick. Feel like jello, can't talk, and delirious.
sadness	tweets	@wossy what a smashing show tonight! Love the Killers! Wish I had been there, gutted... Such a shame they got cut off mid-song at the end
sadness	tweets	I miss him  ARGH
fear	tweets	wishing I was anywhere but here...
fear	tweets	@BBC_Fangirl Won't let me watch since i'm in the states.  Boo.
sadness	tweets	@jpsherman That's true. Unfortunately, the leads in the movies don't die on such a high note. It's more the Friday The 13th model
sadness	tweets	I  do not want to work tomorrow!
fear	tweets	the next 2 weeks, exam wise, are AWFUL. there are 8 exams and I don't see how I can adequately revise all of them  I care least about...
sadness	tweets	Moving: nothing accessible. Camera broken, kitchen stuff in boxes, no internet.  Makes it hard to cook or blog.  get me to brooklyn!
fear	tweets	@jwalsh well, the requirements are quite high as well
fear	tweets	@Erock2106 yeah! but too late  lol
fear	tweets	Getting ready for my graduation party ........(id much rather be at Hello Marquee or Dane Cook)
sadness	tweets	Early(ish) night tonight - I'm doing overtime at work tomorrow again  boo for working on a Saturday!
sadness	tweets	Work is a no go
fear	tweets	@LaraLea awww, we JUST missed you then!!  But I'll see you tonight!!
sadness	tweets	Really missing hockey already.  Off for a night in Dtn Naperville.  Can't wait for the day off tomorrow,  I have to work Sunday.
fear	tweets	@apunbindaas ......when I find chays keys  im gonna clean my room up tomorrow. They'll pop up
sadness	tweets	@aholston Homework bound for the whole weekend, not so fun
sadness	tweets	Roxie is not feeling very well  http://apps.facebook.com/dogbook/profile/view/6878284
sadness	tweets	@Wossy The Killers where the best. A bit disappointed that the last song was cut short  Can you watch it in full on Iplayer ?
fear	tweets	Just woke up from a five hour nap. I still have a headache.  Medication time!
fear	tweets	@patzilla83 I can't have any.
fear	tweets	@tine143 I was going to but I'm siiiick  I'm so mad!!!! Jason said I have to recover fully before I go paintballin again! Are u playing?
fear	tweets	@marshallochs i don't have texting.....
fear	tweets	Because you're everything to me DEMI LOVATO
sadness	tweets	Stuck on the 710 ... Going to my 2nd job ...  ... Why can't I find a good office job???
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso I can't call Mitch!  Im from sweden!
sadness	tweets	@vautlapeine ... you mean the fam , minus ahugs
fear	tweets	Have a HUGE headache... don't have asprin here at work.
sadness	tweets	@mpvt another david hughes on your list? I'm hurt  @davidahughes ftw!
fear	tweets	playing singstar without my fave duetter
fear	tweets	i cant spell
sadness	tweets	asda ready meal - i don't think i'll ever be the same again
fear	tweets	@casablancadonna Glad TS brought it! Sorry about ur foot shorty...ur gonna have to relax wit the heels
fear	tweets	I really want to go to milwaukee but my sis doesn't want to  well she won't tell me
fear	tweets	This economy thing is getting us down. I stay positive mostly but sometimes it really gets to me. Hoping Todd gets work soon.
fear	tweets	@GentleSinner Very afriad  I might copy the picture that I just put up... and change it a little, should I?
fear	tweets	it is red hot bin tryin 2 get 2 sleep 4 ages but i cant
fear	tweets	i want  to go to a  concert  from fob now!!! i miss  it   can't wait  any longer ...
sadness	tweets	@littleisis What time are you coming up here? I don't want to spend the day with mom
fear	tweets	Sleep time for me now, lots of last minute revision tomoro; exam on Monday  night tweet-ers &lt;3
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67rcp - Another one...those were taken at 3 am MET! U see I have a real sleeping disorder
sadness	tweets	Harley passed away in December 2008  http://apps.facebook.com/dogbook/profile/view/616974
sadness	tweets	What did I learn today? Never post anything you've sold on ebay using royal mail. They lose it, I refund: compo's nowhere near - my bad
fear	tweets	@jillvee If it keeps up like this I'm soon not going to have anything to blow the liquids OUT of!
fear	tweets	@SelfEdge what causes the frustration buddy?
sadness	tweets	@RubyRedsocks yup then we are a day older
fear	tweets	ugh! my teeth hurt! its taking the enjoyment out of jack-in-the-box.
sadness	tweets	@Gailporter p.s am gutted- went to order dead famous on dvd today from amazon, couldnt find my wallet, went back and last one sold out
fear	tweets	It's raining and I'm outside without an umbrella.
fear	tweets	Why are young people attracted to trouble? this makes me sad!  ,&lt;3 kMv
sadness	tweets	My cable signal is all messed up!!! I'm missing Ghostwhisperer  In other news I have hurt my toe and have a cold, in like hot weather!!!!
sadness	tweets	is bored at work
sadness	tweets	Soooooooooo glad to learn that Farrells ice cream parlor is staging a comeback in So. Cal -- too bad it's in the Mission Viejo mall
fear	tweets	@MysteryArtist I never knew
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso i love you but i can't call you cause i live in argentina  really really love you mitchel!
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso i cant get through
sadness	tweets	new guitar hero metallica guitar is already broken  #fail
fear	tweets	@alittletrendy but he was only 39  sorry, I tend to ramble about him,
fear	tweets	Every time I pay off my library fine, I get a new one.  I'm a bad patron
sadness	tweets	still no pool key. wth. it's even hot out today.
fear	tweets	Laying in bed til workkk... Oh the life. Definitely pinched a nerve.
fear	tweets	@MissKittySF umm well i only go to house clubs and i never go to north beach so.no idea, sorry  been out 1x there 2 a now defunctlesi club
fear	tweets	Then it just HAD to start raining here. ughh... (via @dusktallon) haha you died   what did you do at muskoka
sadness	tweets	At the library  being friggin bored.
fear	tweets	@marting05  I know... he's mad at us... :'(
fear	tweets	@hatz94 Nooooo get on now! Haha i'll be gone later
sadness	tweets	Everything is cool now. I wish the boy was able to talk.
sadness	tweets	So I really need to put the laptop down &amp; start getting ready for @melancholyjeans shindig...But I've missed my TwitterLoves all day
fear	tweets	owe i just burnt my hand on the toaster oven
fear	tweets	Had a great day, apart from the fact that I bought a USB HUB and as soon as I plugged it in, it broke!!!!    Damn you Tesco!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	I feel like drinking wine, but I don't have any.
fear	tweets	so  im really borde and i dont know what i should do.
fear	tweets	Okay, this weather isn't &quot;cute sundress&quot; friendly. I dont get how it could be so warm one minute and cold the next. I was freezing
fear	tweets	@its_sb I killed my furby tooo
fear	tweets	@lucashardy how are you gonna get them? I got bitten
sadness	tweets	@phillyreds sad, but true
fear	tweets	4 shifts down, 2 to go... then its my birthday!! but, should i be getting excited??? im turning 29 which means im almost 30
fear	tweets	@kerryisonfire i just went to find that unity girl on bebo, i cant find her! i fail at bebo stalking
fear	tweets	Its finally nice out... An hour before we leave
fear	tweets	@nina_serafina85 Its headed this way
fear	tweets	@thepresidentJx3 no one ever gave me the info I'm sad
sadness	tweets	@PatriciaErin *hugs* Oh gosh, I'm sorry
fear	tweets	Just found out that one of my coworkers in St. Paul (who I actually know and talk to) got laid off. This blows.
fear	tweets	Gonna miss the girlys soo super loads! Wish I wasn't going for 3 weeks! It's wayy to long
sadness	tweets	Has a head cold
fear	tweets	went to bestbuy today and found that they had pretty much ever HP except the one i wanted to look at
fear	tweets	@AndreaKoeln awww, im so sorry hun  im sure she didn't do it on purpose though, she seems so sweet! Maybe it was a 24 hour thing? :s
fear	tweets	@SuprnaturlShana I'm sorry you're having a bad day   I was just looking back through. Do I need to give someone a knuckle sandwich?
fear	tweets	@AlpineKyle I am in the 'real world' which apparently involves a lot less twitter....  sorry!
sadness	tweets	oh also... here's a clip of the new moon trailer, that i can't watch cuz i'm at work.   http://bit.ly/wXa9l
sadness	tweets	@juicystar007  man i wont be home to co host with you!  xo*blair
fear	tweets	I think the rain killed my phone
sadness	tweets	@Rachelamac aww you poor thing  hope all goes well!
fear	tweets	Seth Green tells WalletPop his secrets of financial success as 'Unbroke' premieres. link was too long
fear	tweets	Missing Nate more than usual tonight
fear	tweets	@Glinner I'm sorry. It sucks I can't get spotify free. I would never stop you but I just got 5 links from 3 different people. It's crud.
sadness	tweets	A message from @Songoftheoss Could you let people know I have been booted off
sadness	tweets	You such a good friend &lt;3 I miss you so much
fear	tweets	@souljaboytellem Lucky u Im stuck in the rain...
sadness	tweets	@JBOO46 when he's there. he wasn't there today. sadness!
sadness	tweets	@misssammibaby why are you sad?
fear	tweets	Also just realized that my digital voice recorder doesn't have a USB port!?!?! I think I picked the wrong model
sadness	tweets	FML.. today sucks.. i just hope the dance will bring my soul up.. i pray, but im still sad..i hateee todayyyyyy!!! &gt;;(
fear	tweets	@markhoppus Are we going to be able to buy more than 1 ticket online through livenation tomorrow? cant make it to LA
fear	tweets	@Linebeck Wrong  Besides, you wouldn't even draw for yourself now so giving yourself the &quot;responsibility&quot; to post there wud be better
fear	tweets	@elainanic  hope u feel better sweetie
fear	tweets	Uh-oh...it's becoming grey again out here. I hope it's not one of those &quot;pop-up showers&quot; on the way.
sadness	tweets	I want korean bbq so baddd but no one can come with me
sadness	tweets	@leischen1shows always come up when we have the money least, it's the rotten law of averages
fear	tweets	@kirstiealley After many attempts, I can't figure out how put a pic in the avatar. Tells me pic is too big. Frustrated trying.......sorry
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso i want to but i can't call you cause i live in argentina  I really really love you mitchel! You're AWESOME, you Rock!?
sadness	tweets	@MinaScope there is always traffic heading back here to long island on fridays.
sadness	tweets	Love the movie Grease! Can't believe that Jeff Conaway is the same guy who played Kenickie...so sad to see him on Celebrity Rehab
fear	tweets	is not looking forward to returning to reality tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	Drove a #Mazda #RX8 today and boy, that car is fun! Sadly though, I don't find my car that much fun any more
fear	tweets	@its_sb I swear mine was evil  it was green and everything LOL
sadness	tweets	Waiting for Danny to text me back,,,  xoxo
fear	tweets	@Kreeoni I can't follow that one
sadness	tweets	@Nkcaump Excellent pic! Wish I were there, but it's a long drive from TN.
fear	tweets	oh no! :| no more celebrity ding dong for ages
fear	tweets	@sanchaaaa im sadd sancha  june 18 for me is a fail  its gonna be you and chini ((((((
fear	tweets	@NB82 aww sorry ot hear that  least its work though!
sadness	tweets	Mowing #6. I hate my lawn
fear	tweets	@DatBoyXO oh wow...hope he's ok  u take him 2 the vet?
sadness	tweets	Just saw a trailer for Batman Arkham Asylum and you can play as the Joker. But that's only PS3 exclusive. Damn  That hurt.
fear	tweets	last thoughts, again: is sorry, laura. and doesn't want her last tweet of the day to stuart to be nasty   *hugs* ?
sadness	tweets	@liddesigns oh no, sorry to hear abt Firefox crashing on you.
sadness	tweets	booo that meanie @victoria is teasing me with a piece of cheese!   http://twitpic.com/67rt8
fear	tweets	I have class tomorrow and tomorrow is Saturday, I hate having class Saturday
sadness	tweets	@Its_Aitana K ??? What??? No way!!!! No
fear	tweets	one of my besties is moving away
sadness	tweets	@melly16 hmm a certain one who ive gave up on liking as he mucks my head about :^) i give up with them sometimes tbh
sadness	tweets	im just dreamin out loud, i cant have you for mine and i know it
fear	tweets	At Home Depot and no one will help me load my plywood into my van for some reason.
fear	tweets	ugh! looks like it can rain any min now
fear	tweets	do not go to moes mexican grill, it is TOO spicy!
fear	tweets	@RachelDouglas I am totally trying to get back my PCW too
fear	tweets	NCP no longer has job placement
fear	tweets	I'm at church now..bout to od on my smoothie bc it might be melted when I come back
sadness	tweets	I'm very sad  Show do McFly nesse exato momento, e eu aqui...
fear	tweets	A 35 minutos... Split-up.
sadness	tweets	@monkeymad2 nooooooo!! not the receipt!!  don't break my heart
fear	tweets	@AnnieSenior what are u talking about??? since when dnt u trust me? this hurts... Im a good secret keeper
fear	tweets	@DNK_Anais I feel reeeally bad now.... sorry
fear	tweets	@loveyoumoreMJ unfortunately I'm not drunk enough lol and have no money to get drunk  I have had alot though as u can imagine haha
fear	tweets	am so bord and wishes she had an ipod touch
fear	tweets	@TrillMill I need to go shopping with you...but I need to save my money
sadness	tweets	@MrGranger trouble is i don't think any of this is helping my wrists.
fear	tweets	@nkangel74 Yeah I hate that too!!!! Sorry ur goin thru that
fear	tweets	im scared of thunder
sadness	tweets	@daniellefecci &quot;You guys could have fun in a cardboard box&quot;.. I miss you already, bro.
fear	tweets	Well just left six flags. Didn't get to ride what i wanted to. Bummer.   maybe next time.
fear	tweets	@afwife08  sorry to hear that. Is is a 365?
sadness	tweets	Two months ago, I became irrelevant.
sadness	tweets	Feeling better today, but still sick.
sadness	tweets	aw &amp; I really miss Alice &amp; Charlotte tonight  Dunno why though, hey are both spoons ;)
fear	tweets	so sad i wont b able to go to the eugenia kim sample sale in ny. womp womp.
sadness	tweets	nooooooo  sue is retiring  no no no no!
sadness	tweets	Low profile tires suck! They won't have my size in until monday
fear	tweets	@Only_Leah   i cant help it all this talk about losing our fathers makes me sad
fear	tweets	Fuck.. my legs are sun burned...
fear	tweets	@MarieC09 My right ear's been blocked up today  bit like when you've got water in it. Any idea's 2 clear it? don't like putting liquid in
sadness	tweets	I had a hard time loving people as Christ did, today people picking stuff up at my work were just dumb, and annoying
sadness	tweets	@jaidenkhat sadface
fear	tweets	twitter is acting weird
fear	tweets	@SoleneD i need a job that can pay off all my hospital bills. i have been very sick lately.
fear	tweets	Bah DHCP server, why must you keep falling on your face
fear	tweets	It's cold and cloudy and I have a million loads of washing to do
fear	tweets	@ninjang facepalm  hope the interview is a choice and not a forced thing...
sadness	tweets	TwitterBerry hates me
sadness	tweets	@RealAudreyKitch i'd seriously kill for a bath the now.  but we only have a shower cubicle. I miss bubble baths!
fear	tweets	@filmscoregeek Thanks for the R, but, sorry, the LOTR was spam.
fear	tweets	ughhh rejected from the 09 mediation program. SUCKSSSS.
sadness	tweets	Having some Coronas, and have a bad craving for Mexican pastries, but i'd have to go to Uptown to get some
fear	tweets	nooo i cant be sick...not now! im about to go see my new nephew
sadness	tweets	Aw .. the grillz in my background look like plaque ..
sadness	tweets	@Rorzshach I wish  I'm not very good at it tbh :/
sadness	tweets	@summersunrays that's sad
sadness	tweets	Hey dude who turned down a flyer, you're a poser and not nice
fear	tweets	So much for just an oil change... Do not pass Go, do not collect $200, lose $160
sadness	tweets	@kirkfranklin @therealmarymary yall my auntie jus got n a bad car accident...pls pray with me 4 God's will 2 b done...
fear	tweets	@JonathanRKnight wish you were on your way to Tampa! FL girls are missing ya!
sadness	tweets	I'm so hungry
sadness	tweets	5 Mins, till the end of follow me Friday
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67s14 - Saw a family of five get out of this motor home and into laundromat to clean clothes and bedding
sadness	tweets	so i got to my exam centre n they said we can't let u becuz of your sleeveless top! U cud BELIEVE that!? i had to go home
sadness	tweets	@LostMyHeart  hoping it'll go away... I mean I get all teary at the drop of a hat anyway, but it's been truly awful lately - full out sad
fear	tweets	@CHRISDJMOYLES Sorry to spoil it but he didn't this time
sadness	tweets	and now i smell pancakes...or maybe toast... or something delicious. but no one is at my place cooking
fear	tweets	Santa monica bound
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso i wish i could call you but it will cost a lot  my parents wont let me
sadness	tweets	Aw, not going to Toronto anymore.
sadness	tweets	@CHRISDJMOYLES the justice left when DJ Talent was voted off (N)
fear	tweets	Brand new is playing at the epicenter in July when I'm in NY. Jesse lacey why do you hate me?
fear	tweets	@heatherjoy76 I have to figure out how this works!! I don't get it  Hope you're doing well!!!
fear	tweets	@mercutiom i know! i just got off the phone with them. it will leave a Giant hole on Mill. + Regions also closed.
fear	tweets	I know  I have no clean clothes either. And the washer's in the kitchen  Damn you #kitchenfire
sadness	tweets	sweaty and tired from the 6 lap run.  gonna do sun run next year no matter what.
fear	tweets	twit, my way out of grad traffic.
fear	tweets	can't sleep... havent finish my homework  DAMN IT !
sadness	tweets	Up was pretty good. It was kind of depressing though
fear	tweets	already crying and the movie only started like 15mins ago
sadness	tweets	@gengenw who knows  It makes me sad  lol
fear	tweets	Just passed a wrecked car  hoping everyone got out OK. Finally picking up speed. Should have been in B'mpre by now.
sadness	tweets	@asdquefty Yes they are, and now they're all gone.  Did you enjoy yours?
fear	tweets	@BonusJonas Lucky. Winter is coming for us
sadness	tweets	Thankful for last minute doc appointments... Baby girl has a temp of 105.+  sitting at the doc's waitin'
fear	tweets	It's STILL not working!! Why not!! This is FRUSTRATING!!!
sadness	tweets	usually when im gone celebs come on its so unfair
sadness	tweets	Well, I effed the iphone.  It was nice knowing you
sadness	tweets	I can't I'm on my iPhone
fear	tweets	wow, almost got involved in this big fight at school!  ah, but anyways text me? going to causin's house, plus game crazy.
fear	tweets	I am tired tired tired, I think Im getting sick.
sadness	tweets	The weather is so ugly n L.A... It's really cold
sadness	tweets	catching the last bit of Later with jools .. last in series .. sob, cry
sadness	tweets	Just FYI, RUIN HOLLYWOOD IS CLOSED.  Last Friday was our Closing Night.
fear	tweets	Been sick all week and still not feeling so well, can't go to Lena's cook-out  Gunna spend some time with the fam!
fear	tweets	sorry I've been away for so long exams comin up  plz pray for me ya'll
sadness	tweets	just sad that i wont be able to post my new fic this morning...
fear	tweets	@riskybizness23 sooo, u just gon cheat on me and tell everybody on twitter? I don't know if I can trust you anymore.     j/k
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso Mitchel you have no idea how much I want to call you!! but it costs loads to call from england!!!
fear	tweets	Please read my blog http://amandallynn.blogspot.com/ I'm not having the best day
fear	tweets	My poor lil piggy  Chuck saws it looks like a cartoon character's toe.
fear	tweets	@Saraa_xD Si  pero parece que las personas de facebook no estan de acuerdo  (that was probably all wrong, but I tried...)
fear	tweets	eating chicken noodle soup...... its one of those days
fear	tweets	@KComer yeah &amp; when it goes wrong it's the worst feeling ever
sadness	tweets	headache boo
fear	tweets	Is sad clint hurdle got released. I liked him
sadness	tweets	wishing, i was at the michou show right now.. god. life isnt fair
fear	tweets	My head hurts beyond much.
fear	tweets	@ kbal24 I am sorry that you are feeling that way.
sadness	tweets	@onlyJesus777 i was in a hospital for a week and a half pretty much on the virge of dying.
fear	tweets	@ThisStarChild Did I miss the fun?
fear	tweets	Why do I look so awesome in heels yet am so afraid of them?
fear	tweets	@batendersblog she had another song out recently but it didn't get that much play
sadness	tweets	@kbal24 I am sorry that you are feeling that way.
fear	tweets	My debit card is going the same way as my credit card, it's snapping
sadness	tweets	I just broke a bottle, I should probably focus on work instead of thinking of more songgoeswrongs
fear	tweets	@XxHollyJoannexX im home alone in the house and imma scared  x
fear	tweets	@jgoode impressive fever!  best wishes to her, hope it's nothing serious
fear	tweets	okay, need to hit the sack.  i gotta wake up in like 5 hours   goodnight everyone!
fear	tweets	Just broke my favorite necklace  superglue?
fear	tweets	I'm quite afraid to string now since I don't have any .024 wire use
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso I aint got no money to buy any cred to call u  and am in lONDON
fear	tweets	@thethermals sorry guys, the WAVVES show was canceled, they missed their flight
fear	tweets	@iesb I'm so sorry to hear that you're in the hospital.  Hope you'll be better soon.
sadness	tweets	@morrgaan oh no  this week is just a bad one for everyone. i love you &amp; your pretty face &amp; youre going to do fantastic in concert tonight
fear	tweets	@neon_lights aw what's wrong?
fear	tweets	now i dont feel so good
fear	tweets	/me really sad that /me can't go to Java One
fear	tweets	@AndreaKoeln hmm, okayy, im really sorry to hear about it  why do you thikn she would have done that? :S
fear	tweets	@Audioprincess  Nice. I just have water haha. Lucky you! I still have most of my exams to go  Yeah I'm okay just worried about exams :/
sadness	tweets	Waaaaaaaa they kicked us out of the bank. Getting it until monday  OMG Chilito
fear	tweets	@turnitgrey I left mine in music...i think i don't have a camera anymore
sadness	tweets	@narrated it's kool...it's his job i blame
sadness	tweets	Uh. Finally home, but completely wiped.
fear	tweets	too bad i'm @ work  ...
fear	tweets	@MrsDDoubleU no I want too, but a couple of people said it wasnt good
sadness	tweets	I want to cry at the thought of the NBA season being almost over  NEXT YEAR MIAMI!!!!!!!!!!!!
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso you didnt answer
fear	tweets	hey Tweeties, my auntie jus got n a bad car accident...pls keep her yall prayers  ...thanx
fear	tweets	poor bella is in the ER with her first and second ear infection since both ears are infected. Her screams were blood curdling!
fear	tweets	Not ready for this year to end
fear	tweets	Oh no she stopped!
sadness	tweets	Hubby went to pick up  my Fringe comics today @ store by his work. THAT store was out of business too. No comix in Houston. Have 2 Web.
fear	tweets	Headache is coming on
sadness	tweets	aaawww im soooOOooo tired today.. i dont feel good.. i dont wanna go to work wah..  but yeah im goin to work in a few mins. til closing..
sadness	tweets	I miss her alot and its only been one day
fear	tweets	@mrsmicah I'm glad your inside too. Take good care of yourself. An event in Rising Sun?  Too bad you're filling ill or we might see you
fear	tweets	flipping out on my hairloss....gotta go to the doc.
fear	tweets	These messages are teasing me! It isnt fair.
fear	tweets	Scared  waiting for the call
sadness	tweets	so I'm kinda pissed that Boys Like Girls is gonna be at Kentucky Kingdom on a date i already have a show
fear	tweets	It's starting to look like the @ScifiLeague website may not happen in any form
sadness	tweets	workin.. still lol i wanted to go to the spring game
fear	tweets	@Victoriouz tres rude VICTOR!  :\
fear	tweets	@arronthomas whats wrong babe?  x
fear	tweets	i think the food i ate made me sick.. i no feel so good
fear	tweets	Ahhhhhh I got stitches  I seriously cant wait to go to the beach! SUMMER HURRY UP!!!!!!
fear	tweets	I dont like seeing my best friend cry, it breaks my heart and I dont know what to do or say
fear	tweets	Hadnt cried in such a long time
sadness	tweets	im really sleepy and i want to go to bed...but its upstairs and its a mess and i know im gonna have to clean it  nooooo
fear	tweets	there are some really scary noises coming from outside
fear	tweets	I can't take it anymore
fear	tweets	ok, i am finally starting to hit a draw, but now my short game has gone to crap!
fear	tweets	wish I was feeling better...I've been holding a potential cold at bay for a few days now &amp; I think it is winning...aches, cough
sadness	tweets	@Galaraza stop being mean to me!! ur hurting my feelings
sadness	tweets	Rain delay
sadness	tweets	@flutters_bye no you didn't send pics. I was supposed to go with but shit got all fucked up.
sadness	tweets	My Spanish = crap
fear	tweets	totally having austin powers withdrawl symptons and Darrius withdrawl symptoms and mommy and minne withdrawl syamptoms.
sadness	tweets	@buzzup why would you want a clone? Unboxed a new 24&quot; iMac last night and it's beautiful! Too bad it's not mine
sadness	tweets	Im heading home. gotta work sunday.
fear	tweets	Anyone want to buy me this anthropomorphic planter? http://tinyurl.com/m6sru3 Only available till the 31st
fear	tweets	So exhausted
fear	tweets	@eeeethannnn I do NOT. I RARELY dye it at all.  the red was the first in aaaagggessss. My hair just hates me.
fear	tweets	@jenscloset WOOHOO!!!!! nothing says a hot date night than a squeegee! LOL i'm watching Dora on noggin with my 2yr girl, hubs is at work
fear	tweets	Has a bad feeling that this time next yr, her fav musical may no longer be on the West End
fear	tweets	@dunnybrasco Im home, phone died thou
fear	tweets	it's the weekend but 9 year old is grounded which makes me grounded too
fear	tweets	@JustYassy it wont work for me
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso I cant call you from Europe
fear	tweets	@LLCOOLDAVE Trying to fix my background
fear	tweets	@pbreaze I heard from @ricklondon &amp; @thehilliers you're away. I miss you too  Look forward to tweeting with you when you return.
sadness	tweets	had 2 leave the mrs @sweetbullshit cuz i have to go 2 work  really didn't want to.
fear	tweets	aw man! have to go, only got to listen to the block party for like 10 mins
fear	tweets	@sam_h786 as ur coming on to here im just off to bed  hows ur day been? x
sadness	tweets	@billohbill SS &amp; i r @ the devon horse show. gettin' mostly rained out. lots of events have ben cancelled incl the coaches
sadness	tweets	@RetroRewind a buff guy.....unfortunatly alot of people dont know Danny's name either which is sad   Sophie is so sweet
sadness	tweets	Im mad cuz i cant get any picture to work.
sadness	tweets	@iHolleeee i miss you too; i need to talk to you, i keep screwing up ..  lovee u !
fear	tweets	@souljaboytellem hell yea its hot here  i miss cali
fear	tweets	I miss the seniors already
fear	tweets	@fallenfrommars yeah! but too late hun  lol
sadness	tweets	in desperate need of some tweets to cheer me up
fear	tweets	@oxEmalieexo: Lol it went okay! As far as I can tell . But then I had to do a test today for geo and I was all zoned out and got like 65%
sadness	tweets	@kvbuckley I don't know enough about #Sotomayor, but she made a big boo-boo talking about making law.  Doesn't know what 3 branches do?
sadness	tweets	We lost a peacock chick this morning
sadness	tweets	No free ice cream though
fear	tweets	@fiddlecub Guessing that's a question to everyone. I'm struggling to finish my last university assignment before I can start my summer
fear	tweets	NEED A JOB ASAP...JUST GOT LAID OFF AND IT SUCKS
fear	tweets	TWITTER WILL NOT UPLOAD MY ICON PICTURE  it hates me. Eff this, i'll upload it later
fear	tweets	Sunburn is really bad now. Regretting sitting in the sun without suncream now
fear	tweets	Need some coffee... Getting serious withdrawal symptoms
fear	tweets	At The Only with @camfinlayson and @momotoronto, but not with @MoxieGarrett.
sadness	tweets	aw how to lose a guy in ten days  &lt;3
sadness	tweets	@Flash_Forward Poor dead Josh.  http://bit.ly/JKpHn Please leave your messages of condolences there. #boy #rip ||| That's sad.
fear	tweets	i like how, no matter how much fun i'm having, i need a hug, a bowl of ramen, and a comfy blanket as soon as i get home.
fear	tweets	By @nikhilbhaskaran Drove a #-mazda #RX8 today and boy, that car is fun! Sadly though, I don't find my car that much fun any more
fear	tweets	@LaurenConrad mmmm lauren conrad eeeeep im going to miss the hills
fear	tweets	@jesamine Here's a more appropriate @ tweet... is everything ok  Your last 3 days of tweets don't paint a good picture :-C
sadness	tweets	Today is just not my day. I can't seem to feel any better. If i dont eat, im hungry. If i do eat, i feel like im gonna be sick. Blah
fear	tweets	Whoa. UP is sad.
sadness	tweets	Sad that when fitness center reopens will not have our Zumba class anymore.  Just found out today on our last class before closure.
sadness	tweets	Truck full of silver bars imploded on itself.  Delayed us an hour and we didn't  even get a bar for our troubles.  No photo
sadness	tweets	dont get to see my boys tomorroww.im sad
fear	tweets	ughhh my leg is still cramping from my panic attack outside ULU this morning   bloody hurts!!
sadness	tweets	Had some pliers blow up in my face today. My mistake, killed the wrong breaker. Wires connected on the pliers, boom. Big chunk gone.
fear	tweets	In cafe management, the end of the month is nothing but numbers. My arty little head hurts from finding discrepencies
fear	tweets	they aren't selling jamba juice at my school today  they're going to sell it next week. on monday.
sadness	tweets	Everytime still holds horrible, horrible memories for me though.
sadness	tweets	@SCHATJE TY. Just a long tiring day filled with expensive plumbers and work  needed CALGON. Hope you &amp; @madberry have an AWESOME weekend!
fear	tweets	getting ready... omgosh, so nervous
sadness	tweets	@Bellabellini - Yeah I know they are fuck annoying with that... But it,s such good promo... I lost some contacts for business in there
fear	tweets	Wishing Adam wasn't at work
fear	tweets	Still at work whaaaaaaaahhhh
fear	tweets	@Mitchelmusso: Am getting upset listening to the say now  I want to speak to you Mitchel but my darn phone got no money on x
sadness	tweets	@KeLauLi I'm so sad right now.
sadness	tweets	Looking at my daughters baby pictures makes my heart hurt
fear	tweets	It is 00:03 I'm Wrecked  I'M Hungry &amp; I have to get up early. Not the perfect Fri night LOL night
sadness	tweets	The icecream truck never comes to my house
fear	tweets	I miss my closest freind,Shirley, She went to France for the summer  I miss you Shirley!!!!
sadness	tweets	@Jtay1995 It's finally summer! Unforunately I can't come see you...it'll be a while before I see all of y'all again.  Tell emm I said hi!
fear	tweets	It's so hot tonight  ugh gross.
fear	tweets	I wish I could spend my last weekend as a high school student in burbank with everyone and not fly off to dc
sadness	tweets	Just got home from the hospital.... i have another clot in my leg
fear	tweets	@hogaan can you stop working so i can have someone to play with !
fear	tweets	the fact my room is so hot is making me feel sick
sadness	tweets	@megaman51 Yeah, it's work. It's been busy all day and I'm tired and hungry.
fear	tweets	Wish I brought some warmer clothes. It's chilly here.  only negative thing about the trip (&amp; the no sun which is connected to chilliness)
sadness	tweets	@nathanblevins  Maybe next time. Can't be away this weekend as much as I'd like to jump in the car and go. ::pout::
sadness	tweets	@dougiemcfly Have a great show Doug, have fun. Im sorry that I wont be there to watch you
fear	tweets	@azandiaMJBB Oh no! Dreadful thought! Won't you get to spend any time blipping at all next week then?
sadness	tweets	Listening to: Sweet Talk 101 - Cute Is What We Aim For /// Considering taking up the GameBoy Color again. I miss chiptune.
fear	tweets	What happened to my early night? Am about to turn into a pumpkin
sadness	tweets	JoBo's tired of getting off work at 7
sadness	tweets	bed rest for all weekend and next week  neomonia suck
sadness	tweets	I'm sad Twits!  I'm going to miss @epiphanygirl musiq soulchild and anthony hamilton! Ugggghhhh I LOVE them!
sadness	tweets	sigh.. stayed up late cause was on a role w/ assessment, now I'm so tired my eyes r stinging &amp; my head hurts.. &amp; I still need 500 words
sadness	tweets	Soooo bummed I'm missing the blockparty again! Haven't been able to get the app to listen on my iPhone!!
sadness	tweets	@SpringWestEnd i cant believe you are closing 2moro and ive never had a chance to see the show  Good luck to everyone - you are all stars!
sadness	tweets	First sports banquet without katie
sadness	tweets	Well I guess I'm not heading out to LA this weekend, Doubt I'll get to go to the PS Blog Meet and Greet
sadness	tweets	sitting at home being bored.......
fear	tweets	Now have an unpleasant talk w/n-laws 2 look 4ward 2....
fear	tweets	@Mcpattz ouch, thats your achy back...so sorry ... i didnt mean to cause you pain
sadness	tweets	Apparently I'm not meant to take dance lessons here
sadness	tweets	I'm headed home.. Sea world closed early
sadness	tweets	@jcubed1 Dang! Of course, I'm just jealous 'cuz I didn't think of it first
fear	tweets	Just saw &quot;Drag me to Hell&quot;. Sam Ramei is excellant as usual but the kitty scene was kinda hard for me
sadness	tweets	@dannygokey im so upset u were at US weekly my uncle works there but he apparently didnt know how big of a fan i am!
sadness	tweets	@peapodann the second i hit reply to that tweet i was asked to stop playing music.  i am now sad. someone sing to me. on or off key works!
sadness	tweets	My net died so yeah....  I'm sad now
sadness	tweets	@Axelsrose  im trying to fix myself really but i need to stop cutting myself
fear	tweets	@tommcfly Tom, get ready, here in Porto Alegre is really cold
fear	tweets	this cheese is fuckin up my stomach
fear	tweets	En el salon.. Que caliente el blower ouch
fear	tweets	@RealJudgeJules Gutted your not playing Kos in July Jules
sadness	tweets	@ebonyeeee - No I didnt get your text.....
fear	tweets	I need someone to watch my yorkie.
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus i bet you miss trace loads
fear	tweets	@ProfLovee why you not go on the twitters no more?   oh bais!
sadness	tweets	@Rosellyanna she forgot her words and then started crying  and she stopped singing but then carried on and then cried again so she stopped
fear	tweets	my tummy hurts!
fear	tweets	@mkuioka808 You still have class? Ouch
fear	tweets	@candyisrad  what's wrong with debbie?
sadness	tweets	@coupleocachers Trying to watch your vids, but the audio has been disabled
sadness	tweets	is disappointed to learn Newark, OH cancelled their july 4 fireworks due to the economy
sadness	tweets	hey guys y did the sun make my day gloomy?
sadness	tweets	@jaidenkhat Damnit. Sorry to hear dude
sadness	tweets	Is definitely working sunday afternoon to late evening
fear	tweets	@_Chelsea_Marie wow u might have bad days lately ...  Sorry... Where are you workin ?
sadness	tweets	really want to see UP, but no one wants to go with me
sadness	tweets	We're going to panahra for dinner.  miss you guys.
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso http://twitpic.com/67swx - i tried but i didnt get through
sadness	tweets	I realllly miss my parents backyard and hammock. reallly bad.
fear	tweets	I think I tricked out my ankle during cardio yesterday.  I'm getting old.
fear	tweets	I don't know what to do about tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@SASSS09 hahaha.. sadly this one's supposed to be done individually.. so no chance of social loafing lol
fear	tweets	@Rorzshach Are you okay?
sadness	tweets	I do feel bad for the nice people there though, just not whover it was that said we were out of line
fear	tweets	i was an extra. got ready for work for nothing. studying all night
sadness	tweets	@drewryanscott LIKE U SAID &quot;GIVE TC A CHANCE!&quot; WE WILL MISS THOMAS  BUT HAVE TO MOVE ON. SO WATCH THIS! http://bit.ly/r6RfC
fear	tweets	I'am back to Tweetie 1.1.1.
sadness	tweets	@CurvaceousDee aw, gutted
sadness	tweets	Take me away
fear	tweets	It hurts to breathe again.. Why?
fear	tweets	26 pin multi core cable goes bad just B4 service
sadness	tweets	i love me some americana- but no movies to see
fear	tweets	I have a belly ache...
fear	tweets	I miss ya, Boyfriend!  When am I gonna see ya again? Br!Tt@Ny!!!
fear	tweets	@Jovani_Celeste  how long is the delay?
fear	tweets	i soooo want to get a Nikon D 90  damn y do they cost soooo much!
sadness	tweets	@Dap23 ohh, i'm watching my best friend's wedding. it's so sad..
sadness	tweets	@jennabeaniscool won't need my hugs anymore
fear	tweets	imm tired of callin @mitchelmusso &amp;&amp; hearin other convos  i wanaa call himm!!
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso I REALLY WANT TO TALK WITH YOU MITCH! but I live in Indonesia, I cant call you  at least, give me a shoutout please??
sadness	tweets	i miss my baby  hateeeeee it
sadness	tweets	Why did everyone seem to leave me this weekend  ....sigh. In bed
sadness	tweets	@DaysofBigWheels I wish I could see that first hand
sadness	tweets	I am SO MAD that Glee won't premiere till Fall
fear	tweets	Everyone on the eastcoast... the rain hates us  let's just all fly to Cali. LOL
fear	tweets	@WerewolfEmbry No, trying to reason with it. It didn't listen
sadness	tweets	@charlieks @tonita_face @emmaleeks and nana.wish i was there last night
sadness	tweets	@jeannethinks I would love to see the sun again.  It has been raining here for 3 days now.
sadness	tweets	@paaaulaaac me too  even my life is pretty good but i always say its shitty
fear	tweets	Squashed Foot  xx
fear	tweets	@WonderlandDream I can't, I have an exam on wednesday
fear	tweets	@BigEish How?? and who is Mommy??? I want to call but the phone is still broke
fear	tweets	@erin_elaine Our chandelier is here! I seriously don't know how 2 get it through our door without sending it crashing down our steps
sadness	tweets	@xzenax Bad times for everyone  Whywhywhy do we have to write essays  No fair!
fear	tweets	Back from comedy night. Great fun. It's only midnight. I'm knackered. I'm getting old
fear	tweets	why does it randomly hangup on me?
fear	tweets	I am unhappy
fear	tweets	@GentlemanRiot yeah, I thought they weren't food grade, but apparently they were. Kind of a big waste.
fear	tweets	Also, why are paracetamol so hard to swallow? Even when the long ones are snapped in half. Ow.
sadness	tweets	my attempt to sync facebook and twitter seems to have failed
fear	tweets	@TeamCyrus AHHH! still not following!! Do you think she forgot??
sadness	tweets	It's patio weather in Kirkland!  It's also launch-yer-boat weather, except I'm missing the boat part
fear	tweets	I want a lie in tomorrow! Won't be getting one though
sadness	tweets	Dann and I are in Vegas. We misconnected and our next flight is at 4:45 to Midway. Tonight I will be in a hotel w/o undies
sadness	tweets	today was the last day of high school for me and i ended up going home sick! ... stupid dead rats
fear	tweets	@tinylegacies D: But it is making people unhappy and I dun like unhappiness
fear	tweets	@tccrt3r !! WE WILL MISS THOMAS  BUT HAVE TO MOVE ON. SO WATCH THIS! http://bit.ly/r6RfC
sadness	tweets	going to the memorial for the guy in my grade that died.
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso http://twitpic.com/67swx - i wish i was calling you but i can't from Malta
fear	tweets	@darvin111 you don't even care about there, their, and they're.
fear	tweets	Doesnt feel good!  but I cant miss work tomorrow!
fear	tweets	dang that burrito and toaster strudle(sp?) was just a tease im still hungry
sadness	tweets	@KeeganFrank: I just don't want to be here.
fear	tweets	@HolidayParade so close to tennessee
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67tcr - Ouch!! Burnt my arm on the grill
fear	tweets	@buddahwong i wish you were in my class last year
sadness	tweets	on my way to shreveport to forget all the bad things he's brought into my life
sadness	tweets	Crossing the bridge....leaving ocean city  I'm sad.
fear	tweets	is poolside. Bowling toniht maybe?? Back to work tomorrow
fear	tweets	Ouch...waited to long to get eyebrows waxed
sadness	tweets	@annamessias i miss yoooooooooooooooooooou my poia
sadness	tweets	very much disappointed with the angels and demons movie  shame, it was a great book
fear	tweets	I drive &gt;90mph on a daily basis. u cld film Fast &amp; Furious off of me. But anything  &lt;1 mph is not my forte'. I bump Anything!.
fear	tweets	going 2 bed.  its gonna be a looong day tomorrow with the sun shining and i'll be inside working like a (hot)dog! (who makes sandwiches)
fear	tweets	@greenphoenix09 thanks!!! But ummmm can't find that option  http://myloc.me/21F2
sadness	tweets	@Rorzshach Oh no  -hugs-
sadness	tweets	@JennaSnacks it's best if i check it while it IS up. when it's down, i can't really see anything
sadness	tweets	RIP Big cup... I will miss you
fear	tweets	Eugh, just seen a huge spider running about &amp; had to kill it with my shoe... I HATE spiders... &amp; crawlies that come out in humid weather
sadness	tweets	can't set p my phone to twitter
sadness	tweets	he's outta the ofc til Monday ::GRAND:: kinda bummed me out but b/c I was genuinely sick there's nuthin I can do about it  --&gt;
fear	tweets	Uhh badddd day. Tired and ready for it to be over
sadness	tweets	thinking about life and my dreams. why does it seem so appealing to give up?  im so jealous of every band/artist who is living theirs out
fear	tweets	If my phone dies I will die too!
sadness	tweets	Spendin time with ant before he's gone for the night
fear	tweets	... looks like it's gonna rain
sadness	tweets	@keithjoforever why are you so angry keith...  whats up...
fear	tweets	@JayFmOnline i hope so. i really need one! we'll see. unfortunately drama always finds me.
sadness	tweets	Sickkkk  ....and I need 11/20--NOW.
fear	tweets	can't set up my phone on twitter
fear	tweets	@KallieT this is sounding like the worst lurgy ever - the one that just won't go away ..  ...are you ready for end-of-rope action yet??
fear	tweets	Wat a nice day it was 2day!me and rachel decided to walk to work and walk back lol..was so warm inside tho
fear	tweets	@hopeless_hearts hey,got your text. cannae hen, family are comin over  i've got nae money to come to livi anyway  xxxx
fear	tweets	@miss_cass my throat hurts today.  blahhh.
fear	tweets	How to ruin Friday? Your dad tells you there's something wrong but you should be at home so he can call you. He usually *never* calls
fear	tweets	@mateomac l'm on 3 days too matt. No fun this weekend.
sadness	tweets	@LilEmoBoi warm and wet  spent the day carpet cleaning the yacht
fear	tweets	Trying to figure out how this works  ... BOO
sadness	tweets	They are out of ice cream at the Crazy Mocha in SS. This means no Espresso Milkshake..
fear	tweets	@scavengerlor hey thought ud be on here most likely, im stressed out  i really dont know why  x
sadness	tweets	@dezurita nooo it was a real mushroom! but our neighbor uprooted it
sadness	tweets	Tired.....but can't go to bed yet.....
sadness	tweets	notthebest weekend....but oh well....I have a right to be sad
sadness	tweets	Puzzled by people's mood swings... it makes me somewhat sad that I can't pinpoint  how  they feel
fear	tweets	@CrossedOutName pandora is blocked at my work  bummed
sadness	tweets	made a little cover for my iphone.  the birds aren't upside down on the back  http://twitpic.com/67tp9 &amp; http... http://bit.ly/FjeAm
fear	tweets	I'm so bunged up!! I Hate colds!!
sadness	tweets	Watched Ten Pounds last night, brilliant movie,I couldnt stop weeping!!!
sadness	tweets	@cecamy it's nto as good
fear	tweets	back from dr. appt. no real diagnosis (hmph), just prescribed antibiotics, and an inhaler to help w/ the extreme coughing.
fear	tweets	Oh hey, look, North Korea are going to kill us all; or at least some of us.
fear	tweets	WIDE awake, scoffed 3/4's of a pizza and feel like a sumo  such a weak day! Run tomorrow
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67twh - This has never happened before =/ orange blinky lights. I think I've broke my battery again
sadness	tweets	everything is going wrong in my &quot; happy day&quot;
sadness	tweets	going to bed  cant take thiss any longeerr maan. [U]
sadness	tweets	@rmetalbroad belay the swimsuit, hot tub won't be ready this weekend.  sadness
sadness	tweets	Bah! Still at work. Lol my feet hurt and my nose won't stop running!
sadness	tweets	@divarina21 i dont evn talk 2 him no more. it was a huge mistake. i shoulda listened 2 her. i kno she's disappointed in me.
fear	tweets	I feel useless I don't know what to do right now. I'm so bored
sadness	tweets	has finished exams.... has (almost) moved out of halls and is leaving london tomorrow
sadness	tweets	That's okay... I didn't want to watch shelby anyway!
fear	tweets	@bigkelleh i am sorry  that sucks. i got my overtime in my check already today....now i am really tempted to blow off tomorrow
fear	tweets	@marginatasnaily haha..i wont  well il try not..lol... night chick..xxxxx
sadness	tweets	Twitter's being lame and won't post my twitpic of Gucci and I
fear	tweets	Hate being skint  Anybody want to give me another job? haha!
sadness	tweets	@bigkelleh but i know i can't
fear	tweets	Poor Flores! Not happy about the latest news  #Nats
fear	tweets	I just burnt my ear
sadness	tweets	@BIGBOYRAMSACK kenny u alive!!!...I'm here getting da hair done..to bad I'm not chillin w/ u todat  kinda sad
sadness	tweets	@Lilayy same here. like i know there's people who have worse lives than me but i wish i could go back and change some aspects of my life
fear	tweets	@m_longman yes i am.  but she didn't follow me
sadness	tweets	Trully a awful day! Shitty!
sadness	tweets	Getting ready 2 leave 2 a girl scout metting..Don't feel like it but I have 2.....
sadness	tweets	I am so hungry...if my arm were on the core diet I would eat it!  Guess I have to wait until dinner is ready
fear	tweets	@drunkenlovee it'd take jamy 6 months to figure out how it works. I wanted to go see a movie tonight! then i remembered the game was on
fear	tweets	i need monies.  school is expensive.
sadness	tweets	i miss @baltigirl97!! she's gone for the WHOOLLLLEEEE weekend!!! boo hoo
sadness	tweets	Sick of fighting so it looks like no more burlesque for me
fear	tweets	@jonheadley @jsanfridsson gutted i miss that! the one night i try 2 leave early  lol! friends visitin were tired haha!
fear	tweets	Major iPhone problems  Wont let me send texts BUT I can do everything else! Can anyone help
sadness	tweets	@greenlabel aww that's awful. Makes me so sad
fear	tweets	@MyInnerTricia it is gay...u have dissappointed me that past few days
fear	tweets	@heyheykarla I'm sorry about your car. I feel for you...
fear	tweets	@nicksantino NICK WTF I WAS GONNA GO BUT I HAVE NO RIDE. Boo
fear	tweets	Sugarland. So hot outside.  why so much hotter than the northwest?
sadness	tweets	Is feeling a bit lonely
fear	tweets	sad ending to the softball season.
fear	tweets	@lizwebpage Hmmm...chinese delivery it is. Altho, how will I order? I CAN'T TALK!
sadness	tweets	@infobunny Ouch. Realising how sheltered my upbringing was.
fear	tweets	@TFA2431 aweee im sorry  but deep down u know i love ya!
sadness	tweets	@Eric_John Sounds like a terrific service. I'm sorry to hear about her mom.
fear	tweets	Some guy just said he wanted to spank me
sadness	tweets	Honestly at home alone
sadness	tweets	@TheEllenShow Ellen..why you got to lie?   I'm so sad rite now.
sadness	tweets	Stars and Sons was hard to review. Didn't grab me instantly this morning so will have to delay the review to a 2nd listening tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@TaLisaDuhhh i miss bein 18
sadness	tweets	@MrMarcusX was jst out there wednesday
fear	tweets	@LysdelTellez I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
sadness	tweets	Off to the gym by myself!  no fun!
fear	tweets	how bad has life gotten where u  werecounting on the church50\50 raffle? the answer is real bad
fear	tweets	@meekorouse Very cute - I don't think I can make it to MakerFaire, sadly
fear	tweets	@hopei91 I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
fear	tweets	Wishing it was naptime
fear	tweets	mad the rain got me...now i cant go see jaiden   *|)|/-\|\|/-\*
fear	tweets	Miss the newest version on Glade on Debian..
fear	tweets	Boredom isnt any fun..Wish I had somebody to hang out with tonite..
sadness	tweets	seagull hates me and im utterly depressed about it. i miss him.
fear	tweets	@cageyjames Nope, won't be  .. Although I am not sure I want to go!
fear	tweets	It's gloomy as hell outside today.
sadness	tweets	Idk i cant do shit
sadness	tweets	@LadyLogan I wish I could...but I'm @ work when she's on...
fear	tweets	@trent_reznor...are you really not touring anymore????  my brother told me. I'll miss ur concerts!!
sadness	tweets	Got the CofO to late didn't close today   Will close Monday....back out to meet a buyer tonight to show a few homes to
sadness	tweets	So bored.... couldn't go to a-kon...
sadness	tweets	chris sab and i = COMME ESTAS BITCHES
fear	tweets	@tbirdj Oh man, that sucks  I'm sorry, doll.
sadness	tweets	Hummmmm..... ohh  i miss you so much!!! really, but i hope you have a nice friends, like us :]
fear	tweets	@shanselman: first impression is that it's considerably  slower to boot than 2008  #beta1
fear	tweets	how sad. last entrance 2cal academy of science was at 4pm. and it was zipcode free day too.
fear	tweets	this hole twitter thing is new too me, its not letting me change my picture so your stuvk with the wee stpid thing for now
fear	tweets	So much to do this summer, hopefully all comes in favor and nothing has to be cancelled  worked hard for it...
fear	tweets	sorry my bad.
fear	tweets	@markharr You'll be waiting a loooong time
sadness	tweets	rode the moped to the mall. fun stuff, its flippin gorgeous out. I'm sad that @maeannette is sick
sadness	tweets	no Santa cruz for me  but I do have an interview at jamba tomorrow morning (:
fear	tweets	turning laptop of. i'm scared  poor baby.
sadness	tweets	Summer/ Yet I have to read 6 books.... 6 LONG books
fear	tweets	wonders if anyone would care if she died tomorrow
sadness	tweets	Argh noo! Missed The Killers on Wossy!  That sucks! Missed out on Brandon. Total failure! Anyone know if it's repeated? Must investigate!
fear	tweets	@Tayluvsbroadway yeah  fail times. she was in an accident like a month ago, too, almost same thing. was on the bus on her motorscooter
fear	tweets	still sick  thinking about naming the puppy june
fear	tweets	@Audioprincess  Ah bad times   I hate exams. I feel so unprepared this time as well. Sucks haha.
fear	tweets	My blackberry is soon approaching her death
fear	tweets	Such a headache  It's killen me!
fear	tweets	@Mcpattz I hope u enjoyed it and your back is now feeling much more better  God,its 1:20am...heading to bed  God..too late..good night
sadness	tweets	@LucySiebens I think they are disgusting
fear	tweets	trying to upload a custom background on here, but it's not working
fear	tweets	acho q to
sadness	tweets	all dressed up and no where to go...
sadness	tweets	homework on a friday night...lame
fear	tweets	@WerewolfEmbry I'm sorry.
sadness	tweets	found out my &quot;friend&quot; isnt actually. but hey shit happens.
sadness	tweets	@AyeBloodyRight no i mean 2moz. I'm workin' 7-1 in a bakers then 6-4 later in a pub
fear	tweets	Gettin ready to head back to Chi...don't wanna leave Indy  #fb
fear	tweets	@lauradanner I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
sadness	tweets	Was just in a wreck. Getting real sore now. It was their fault and they didn't have insurance. Was planning to go to the wedding tonight
sadness	tweets	@Kat_785 yeah now I'm done BUT I have to work all weekend  I'm sooooo bummed about it
fear	tweets	@saraht578 What software do you use to design sites? I'm a CS student and currently I hard code everything. It's not the fastest way...
fear	tweets	has broken off the fb wedding so sadly no longer has an excuse to get @ hauntingxealot to Goulburn
fear	tweets	off work early
fear	tweets	Thinks she's getting sick.....
sadness	tweets	The sun is breaking through the clouds!...and now it's covered up again.
fear	tweets	At the orthodontisssttt
fear	tweets	trying to fix my internet connection...guess my 'prayers' have been answered and i wont have any study distractions  ugh
fear	tweets	@jarnmang  Hope everything ok! Can burr fix this?
fear	tweets	@abbefied Bummer- that is a bad experience.
fear	tweets	Waiting to put my story about Stereo Skyline up. Don't know where to put it. BOOOO
fear	tweets	@thatkidkevin my phone died
sadness	tweets	I dont want to be ugly anymore
fear	tweets	@mamamikey paramore makes me want to punch babies  lol
sadness	tweets	@jaredque gets to go home. I'm here until 10:30
fear	tweets	r u still there? ? I guess not    i want to talk to you
sadness	tweets	last day of school and last concert of my life.. wow.. can you say emotional? im really gonna miss mhs..  had graduation practice today..
sadness	tweets	@say_stephanie im so pissed i couldnt make an instore at hot topic in the rockaway mall to see @nicksantino.  haha no he wont.
fear	tweets	im in pain, shit
fear	tweets	@AdamSchwabe Oh no....Sorry to hear that ....
fear	tweets	Prayin for dad  in Wellington, FL http://loopt.us/F8_Jqg.t (via @furman27).       I too live in welly.  May i pray for you?
fear	tweets	kind of.i'm trying to make sure i have everything yet still look after the boy.hubby isn't home yet
sadness	tweets	I will miss my City when we leave...priciness, pollution, panhandlers and all
sadness	tweets	So I love my mac but msn doesn't work on it still
fear	tweets	@KSdaisy Oh, that sounds bed..poor girl
sadness	tweets	I hve a blister on my pinky nd it hurts soooo much!
sadness	tweets	I lost 15 dollars. I always lose my money
fear	tweets	@Twinnikkib too late  I'm already on the bus goin home  what the he'll u talkin about drinkin tea????
fear	tweets	@ryansporn Don't be mad at me.  Please? ::puppy dog eyes::
fear	tweets	I took her cracker now she doesn't love me
fear	tweets	@nerak35 hello 30stm-fan  another one that's cool. i don't know one fan of them in person only via the net  so how are you?
sadness	tweets	@allysonbrianna Well, yeah. But my mom doesn't wanna drive all the way to Sac if we were that far away.
sadness	tweets	@HimOverThere awww, poor leg!  *sends virtual hug* x
sadness	tweets	too many good shows coming up and no money to buy tickets. fmfl. brand new at the troub?
fear	tweets	Working on something exciting... and I cannot tweet about it for several months
fear	tweets	@architeuth1s oh no fair.... thats in 9 hours
sadness	tweets	fucking hates goodbyes
fear	tweets	Unanticipated thunderstorm quashed camping trip
sadness	tweets	Missed the play
fear	tweets	Just got my marks...  BCIT is the death of me I swear!
fear	tweets	I hate to say this, but CLA really should have had a press conference or something today.
sadness	tweets	My head hurts
sadness	tweets	whatever. i give up, my phones about to die anyway.  next time
fear	tweets	Families  I really feel for some people and wish I could help but I can't
sadness	tweets	@suewaters Sorry - I have failed to grasp your meaning
fear	tweets	Just got home from a work.. and not looking forward to it tomorrow morning! Oh and tomorrow night! Great
sadness	tweets	oy, im such a nerd..im writin 2 no1 cuz no1 is followin me  i mean lik sum1 was but their account was deleted due to &quot;strange activities&quot;
fear	tweets	feels very very sick  hmph.
fear	tweets	@StaceMichelle I doubt I'll get one to be honest
fear	tweets	I'm really nervous about giving a speech at a wedding tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@xchristineannx Aww I'm sorry your boys are sick.   I'll keep my fingers crossed for no tails. lol Stay well youself and get better boys!
fear	tweets	Today was horrible. My sillyness caused me a whole lot of stress and head ache and it ended up ruining a beautiful sunny day.
sadness	tweets	Looks like its another night at the office lol
fear	tweets	its about to storm..soo much 4 goin out  ..ill just play on the net for awhile
fear	tweets	AHHHHHHHH omg Pridelines got talent is giving me a headache!! wtf omg osn !!! Make it stop mommy make it stop
fear	tweets	peeling so much!!   ..I feel so bad
fear	tweets	@NKOTB So when are you guys coming to Alabama...you were supposed to be there tonight but cancelled...I had great seats
fear	tweets	@livlovsmileGRN what happened? I thought you were coming back today....
fear	tweets	just wake up.and i got flu  http://plurk.com/p/x2zp6
fear	tweets	@saragarth Thank yooou! I might have to get it seen to... hm...  xx
fear	tweets	@cherylsayshi i thought it was just me that was like really hot. My room is too hot to sleep in
fear	tweets	@markymark7 Omg really??  I sowwy! I'll do it again! :-p I was tired when I did that this morning. :-p lol!
fear	tweets	@gosner living in harlem, i can say for sure that there is far more pollution here than in other parts of nyc where i've lived.
fear	tweets	I want to panic
sadness	tweets	When you see me, point and laugh. I'm ugly.
sadness	tweets	home alone on a friday night  doesnt get sadder than that folks
fear	tweets	3 days left of school!  For Bryce and Tyler, that's 3 more days of elementary
sadness	tweets	needs to see a band live.. damn Blink for not coming to the UK this year!  ..anyone wanna go see Billy Bragg or Colin Blunstone with me?
sadness	tweets	@Jaz_paige aww hey! I didn't know this was you! LOL. I'm sick. No outtie for me.
sadness	tweets	@teemwilliams MICHELLEEEEEEEEEEEEMYBELLEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE *snif snif*
fear	tweets	@FAITHL0VEH0PE I guess if you can't accept me....i'll have to keep it movin
fear	tweets	@LesbianDad i really wish i could make it! a 12 hr. drive just isn't going to happen this weekend.
sadness	tweets	Not in front of the tv  wats the score an inning??
fear	tweets	@umassdilo PE and AA? That's a toss up. Did your mother have a &quot;fun&quot; time dealing with American Airlines (I assume)??
sadness	tweets	ok, son in bath, so gonna see if I can find some quick quotes.  Gonna miss ya'll this weekend. I'm already gettin sad
sadness	tweets	Oh dang! 'Drag Me To Hell' came out today, didn't it? Man, I wish I remembered; I would have gone and seen it.
fear	tweets	I left my ipod in the car so now its all warm.
fear	tweets	@juicystar007 ahhh im on your blogtv waiting room
sadness	tweets	@Trillian711 I had an account at a local comic store that I ran to 4k  at one time
sadness	tweets	How amazing is hollyoaks! But my poor warren lmao!
fear	tweets	I want to go see Drag Me To Hell tonight. But no one to go with
sadness	tweets	@backseatgoodbye aww...thats a bummer
fear	tweets	Doesn't feel well and Derek won't get me any medicine
sadness	tweets	@Nextman305 I wish, but nah babe back I home in the ATL
fear	tweets	I think I may have ruined a friendship this week by getting carried away
sadness	tweets	Missing the shotgun match because I was guilted into going to the store with the wife.
fear	tweets	Giving up. Everyone and their cat is using Castle.DynamicProxy2. 3 out of 4 of my dependencies need each a different version of DynProxy2
sadness	tweets	@snoozen i think i'll be home more than i want to be next week - no work booked in for the forseeable.
fear	tweets	@marialuvsu i guess ill never have it  but the sad thing is that u didn't put an Alternate e-mail!! cause if u dont remember ur secret
fear	tweets	@omoly girl i am buying &amp; posting your pressie tomorrow but i have no fucking clue what to get you so i'm sorry if you hate it
sadness	tweets	I'm soooo bored. just fuckin got a new phone and called my man but hes busy and one else bored???
fear	tweets	@paulatoole Sorry  I wasn't doing the inviting...all single women I think.
sadness	tweets	Just to drive @tweetie crazy, I miss the big blue selected tweet highlight. I can't tell which tweet is selected anymore
fear	tweets	Brittany moved
fear	tweets	I don't wanna be single the rest of my life
fear	tweets	mom is on her way home  but yay for mother son days! she even bought some new shoes. haha.
sadness	tweets	@PaperCakes  i hate when that happens. i hope you figure it out soon!
fear	tweets	is bored, cant go on habbo stupid ban
sadness	tweets	I fought Jered to the death to avoid a wet willy.. but he got me anyway.  Q is coming over.. bike ride?
sadness	tweets	@katrchrdsn Without whipped topping, there is no shortcake.   #shortcakefail
fear	tweets	feels a sinus headache brewing, but can't take drugs.
fear	tweets	Goodnight all! No iPod still but found my old MP3 player...we'll see how long it holds out for.  xxx
fear	tweets	I'm at work!!!! Ugghhhhh someone save me now
sadness	tweets	i dont wanna miss the laker game tonight! i'm so sad
fear	tweets	What a gloomy day in the OC,Cali
fear	tweets	@ubringmejoi in spoke to you yesterday and u didnt respond girl  wassup though!
fear	tweets	I wish I lived closer to the girls.  I'm tryna chill on a Friday night!    (@winonapatron next weekeeend! Drink all day AND night?!)
fear	tweets	@mia423 Sleeping in for me is sleeping until 8am  But you know I have 3 kids ....
fear	tweets	Now I feel sick.
sadness	tweets	@krooyakkers what I thought ur going somewhere that's why I didn't invitw u
fear	tweets	@oxEmalieexo: Awwwwwwwwwwe  That okay. I missed bullet's concert in toronto last summer 'cause i had just gotten into them D:
sadness	tweets	heading to graduation  I do NOT like this....oh and Nick....I'll be looking for you....
fear	tweets	I should go shower but FFAF is fucking distraaaaacting
fear	tweets	not ready to say goodbye to spring awakening tomorrow. ugh  anyone else going to be there???
fear	tweets	people are not twitting very much today
sadness	tweets	i called kris he didn't pick up i feel really bad ha ha
fear	tweets	@mrsBAUERxo why has it been so long since i have talked to you let alone seen you?? it makes me sad
fear	tweets	I am having serious cig craving... head for kitchen, let the non smoker weight gain begin
fear	tweets	missing his voice
fear	tweets	Omg! Really? I just ran into a wall
fear	tweets	enchiladas weren't as good as I thought they would be     now I know why I don't eat mexican
fear	tweets	Is it sad that I'm a little sad it was the last day of school?  I am so ready to be done with it...but saying goodbye is hard.
sadness	tweets	I guess the relaxing dinner and a movie is out for tonight...I was looking forward to that after my day at work
fear	tweets	Wish I had time to make it to the CFI lecture tonight after basketball
fear	tweets	well.. all my slacking off earned me a D and a C   but at least everything else are A's and B's ^^  next school year all B's and A's Esh!
fear	tweets	@Natasja_Cupcake I think only 23.  I get confused easy tho. LOL I hope so if so two stopped following me 2. I know one did already.
fear	tweets	sore throat again. gaaah. it hurts.
fear	tweets	going through security already miss my baby.
sadness	tweets	Ugh have to report again monday
fear	tweets	Thought I was seeing top shelf jizz. Very dissapointed!
fear	tweets	Im not doing the hunt, i was in the middle of making it but all my work got erased  sry guys, now i look like a idiot for replying 2 all u
fear	tweets	@staceyclarkin More than welcome...would love to do more physically, but family life doesn't allow
fear	tweets	@BriaNicoleSison Why aren't you at blue martini with me??
fear	tweets	Just wrote another song, but i ran out of ideas so this one is a bit crap
fear	tweets	Karine Ruby, &quot;former Olympic snowboarding champion dies at 31.&quot; http://bit.ly/uKRBg
sadness	tweets	@dinosuit  Idk. I'm only a stupid 7th Grader
fear	tweets	@Deztini tolddd you there was thunder! ew now it's all rainy D: i'm scared!
sadness	tweets	Bah a coworker ran into work late and her bag smacked into my knee  it really hurts now
sadness	tweets	@GrowWear Unfortunately for us it looks like there are NO funny people on twitter  Should we move to FB or start our own...flitter
fear	tweets	@hughsbeautiful Is beastypops tired? I wish i was. My tablets are just making me want to throw up!
sadness	tweets	Upset  bout to talk to someone but idk who though
sadness	tweets	@tbake CRAP. I always forget you are on here
fear	tweets	I cant afford life right now. Everything i want to do is too expensive
sadness	tweets	@psylentmike haha! you're so funny, Mikee .. you're probably the only Mike I'll ever like  *sad thoughts*
sadness	tweets	Damn I wish I was at Botcon with everyone.
fear	tweets	has made a decision and will stick to it although I'm really not sure it's the right one
fear	tweets	@casper1201     my bracelet broke today too.
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso i would love to call you but i live in Norway so its a little hard
fear	tweets	can I just go to sleep and wake up in December when my house is all organized and the baby is here?.. feeling like poo today
fear	tweets	@lid86 he already got a shot at having his own show and didn't prove himself
fear	tweets	I couldn't do anythin cuz he jacked it when I stepped out for like 30 seconds &amp; was already outside up the mtn when I came back..
sadness	tweets	The internet is just being a big fail for me today-- not only is Twitter its usual semi-flaky self, but Facebook and VRBO.com, too  Boo!
fear	tweets	Looking for the @japadog in Coal Harbour. Can't find it!
fear	tweets	@TheMonkeyBoy I never get them and the hubby is due in next week.. &lt;cries&gt; hope its gone by then
fear	tweets	My car has an alarm &amp; immobiliser so it makes it incredibly complicated AND costly! I have no key code neither for the immobiliser.
fear	tweets	@PhillyD i wish i could be there!! too much going on.  sad day
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso Are you still taking calls? We were next to talk to you and we got disconnected before you got now.
sadness	tweets	ugh... my back is killing me.
fear	tweets	&quot;your true theatre calling? - musical theatre actor&quot;  i wish :'( xxx
fear	tweets	off for the weekend! yay. i gots work from 8pm-12am though  it sucks cause this is like the last weekend for partying and im gonna be at
fear	tweets	Great. Now there's a cloud that's really, really dark grey right outside my office window. This sure has a lotta precip with it.
fear	tweets	@tommymercedes wish i was but im in chicago
sadness	tweets	@MaidMirawyn I was supposed to go tomorrow tooooo, but have to use gas and ticket money to pay for car inspection fee.
fear	tweets	just left &amp; already misses Nashville  be back sunday
fear	tweets	Doesnt't want to get up
fear	tweets	@Kristen_Oyler Poor little woman with her smushed in head
fear	tweets	I think I lost all of my blog posts
sadness	tweets	Is at work
sadness	tweets	Bored to tears without my boys! They are at their dad's for a week
fear	tweets	off to bed with my sore nipples
fear	tweets	@chillingo  I wanted to beta test but saw the thread after the results were announced
sadness	tweets	@totalgunner Nurofen and marijuana, usually. But I'm lacking the latter currently.
fear	tweets	@djeebus i cant drink cause i dont have a dd to take of home
sadness	tweets	I'm sick and sad .... missing out on Martini Lounge tonight
sadness	tweets	Going to have yum dinner then watch 'bad girlfriend' play. I have a 6am call time tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@RobertPound not my groom!  think i'll die an old maid! lol
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso i called you too, just YOU don't pick up! i think i deserve a shoutout...
fear	tweets	aww i feel bad cause i dunno if nicole is in the city looking for me. she's probably worried  srry hun
fear	tweets	So confused about what to do?
fear	tweets	sunburnt again
sadness	tweets	@naontiotami No, but I missed you
fear	tweets	@SaadZaeem nothing much man, waiting for my Insurance card to come through... Cant get any workdone here w/o it... Redtape
fear	tweets	@gregorybayne I'm so sad I wish I was going to
fear	tweets	its getting really windy out there
fear	tweets	@funtimeshelly sorry to hear about your dog
sadness	tweets	Can't beat all time low.. (: I soooooo want to go to Metro Station..  Your cheap shots wont be able to break bones
fear	tweets	@SexyShaq it starts @ 6. But we will be there until they throw us out. Traffic will be crazy!
sadness	tweets	this is the worst day ever, i've been told im a chav
fear	tweets	@Jessimikuh go and see my puppy! I don't want to be there alone
sadness	tweets	theres too much light pollution to see the stars
fear	tweets	I recommend returning your broken duck toy with the batteis it came with or the person who your giving it to may get mad!!  trust me!
fear	tweets	@nofearentertain Just read up on your Mom   Hope she's okay!!
fear	tweets	@PBCProductions  Why couldn't you let me know sooner...I can't call out of work on this short notice, oh well here is for next time.
sadness	tweets	Im not friends with anyone anymore
fear	tweets	@samanthai Ahh well he can only spend short amounts of time on because of his mum  You should scroll back at our msgs!!! ;-)
sadness	tweets	my friends are in San Pablo right now... they'll be drinking, laughing and swimming... and iim here....  huhuhu
fear	tweets	Well, it's very hot out. And i want to listen to lines,vines,and trying times!!
fear	tweets	@MileyCyrus: Oh. The voting is over!  But don't worry, I already voted for you about 100000000000000000000000000000000000 times earlier!!!
fear	tweets	Ive got mad cramps in my legs
sadness	tweets	Aw one of our fishies died
fear	tweets	@allisonlodato YES PLEASEEEEE. i miss you  ps i'm bouts to text you
sadness	tweets	i give uppp a hour of tryin to tlk to @mitchelmusso  i love him but my minutesss lol
sadness	tweets	my puppy is sick
fear	tweets	@itsgabbith hMm well at least you got them out! Sorry about it though  wish you could keep them in!!!
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso Hey Mitchel when will you be live again? I didn't get a chance to call you
sadness	tweets	@misterperturbed I ordered a replacement palm centro cuz my phone got kill't! I wanted a palm pre but cant afford a data plan
fear	tweets	I just realized the reason why I am so sad today is because it's reeeeally gloomy outside
sadness	tweets	@selenagomez we'll miss you! I'm sad I didn't get to meet you
sadness	tweets	my dark knight dvd is missing   i'm pissed
fear	tweets	Got a Real Bad  headache
sadness	tweets	Sorry for the delay in publishing this weeks show  Some technical difficulties during encoding. Will be out asap but may be Saturday.
sadness	tweets	i wish i was in cali wit mari nd lupita seeing vfc  not fair
fear	tweets	June is going to be a long, lonely month.
fear	tweets	@selenagomez aww  but we miss you here in the USA.
sadness	tweets	I feel like my dream just got crushed
fear	tweets	And now im all hungry and thirsty. and too afraid to go downstairs...
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso I kept calling and calling, but never got through
fear	tweets	@Vasilly I think I have some tea somewhere. It's probably old though.
fear	tweets	@JYoungS2TS Yaay! I was supposed to go, but I missed it
fear	tweets	I have a farmers sunburn! Ahhhh!
sadness	tweets	Home w/bae &amp; Myka.. He's so meann
fear	tweets	I dont know where to get my hair cut!
sadness	tweets	had my last class with Scott and Julie today  going to miss them... they bought me a bottle of champagne as a congratulatory gift.
sadness	tweets	Hmmm... he's so lovely. I wish he was here now. I'm tired but can't sleep
sadness	tweets	@finellskii have fun!  i am sad to not be with you guys
sadness	tweets	@JayresC: n u can't change your profile backgroud neither
fear	tweets	@Jennicricket not sure i can make it
sadness	tweets	absolutely gutted that i'm not going to badu tonight.  you guys have fun...! just got home and need to head downtown now. gd this heat!
sadness	tweets	@Boy_Kill_Boy That would be really great....except im not allowed to talk to boys on the phone  long story...my fault
fear	tweets	is gonna be mad hungry when I get home. Forgot my money...
sadness	tweets	AT&amp;T cheated the system and now I have no Green Day tickets  Damn you AT&amp;T!
sadness	tweets	It is Gloomy outside. It is making me sad  I miss the sun and its happiness!!
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso I wish I was able to talk to you.
fear	tweets	@Russzart Ohh noo. Joshua im sooo sorry i was out ,im really sorry i didnt get to see you :''( please forgive me  I'm sorry &lt;3
fear	tweets	@o_0robertpatt Why do they do that?!
fear	tweets	@vickytcobra i'm sorry your day wasn't so good  does it make you feel better to know you're beating oprah on ms twitterworld?
fear	tweets	i hate storms.
sadness	tweets	@djCrMix it's been raining every single afternoon in S.Florida  not fair! hehe
sadness	tweets	@TheStevieOs Yes it's herrrrr.  Dude, I'm gonna fucking cry.
fear	tweets	@xsparkage LOL that is so Charlie......I miss Charlie
fear	tweets	Why can't I sleep ????? Is it too much to ask for :-P
fear	tweets	@JennycLiu Oh yah! My dad does that. But I don't have a landline.
fear	tweets	@dhewlett I'm still trying to see Star Trek! I'll just have to Woman up and go alone. BF is pretty much worthless anyway  lol
fear	tweets	*moment of silence* for the Budget i'm bout to b on  I spend wayyy to much $$$.... OMG! I'm on a Budget?!?!
fear	tweets	i look like a freaking tomato  goin to graduation..
sadness	tweets	@2Serenity No FAIR!
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso I'm so sad I missed your calling time, I got home from practice too late
fear	tweets	@iheartmc I'm sorry sister!!  just think you get to see your man in a bit! That should make you happy. You guys should call me tonigh
fear	tweets	Hmm, no holga for me probably
fear	tweets	I'll have to take a picture of the moon tomorrow night  not gonna happen today :/
fear	tweets	Darn it, I'm craving wedding cake... a craving that's very hard to satisfy with anything else!
fear	tweets	Explains why the Woodman offramp was closed  @abc7 Breaking: 2 suspects robbed Union Bank at Riverside &amp; Woodman in Sherman Oaks.
fear	tweets	@Lynne90 wasnt it supposed to have been in for yesterday?
sadness	tweets	OH NO TODAYS JAY LENOS LAST SHOW!!! WE'LL MISS U MR. LENO
fear	tweets	@derwendtde so sorry about that  I have the same issues...LOL. My weekend started about an hour ago!!!
sadness	tweets	@jjooss I think he is :[ wish we could give him a tear or some blood to make him feel better
sadness	tweets	Gonna miss Thick As Blood next Friday
fear	tweets	@dreamergirl822 it's really gutwrenching.  So sad
sadness	tweets	@ivansharris Hey, where do you go last night?  Was expecting to see you @ On Broadway.
fear	tweets	@jordanknight off to bed with fingers and toes and everything crossed u pick me-lol! Hope ur well and got back safe,poor Jon  xx
fear	tweets	Visiting family in hospital = not fun
sadness	tweets	It SUCKS when my playmate is MIA all weekend.  Sad
fear	tweets	I burneded my tummy
fear	tweets	@jimyvr Yeah, and that's where everything becomes difficult and generalisations break down. Not an easy problem  .
sadness	tweets	@siwhitehouse Didn't work for me  Except when I used the word autofollow and got followed by an bot selling an autofollow program.
fear	tweets	is having trouble breathing through the pain..and now i have a damn fever...   (^~^)&lt;^&gt;
fear	tweets	@WardrobeGuy Sorry... What does that mean? I currently have a world phone &amp; I use apps. I'm confused...
fear	tweets	@reddevilleanne aww  i guess not that many people are online though...
fear	tweets	well no phone today, we are waiting till June 9th to get a better deal sooooo  but its all good
fear	tweets	i dont want to be home all by myself all weekend!!!!!!!!!       what should i do?
fear	tweets	i havent gotten any prank calls making me laugh in so long.
sadness	tweets	Kill me now I'm so sick    n it's Friday night!!
fear	tweets	My Tummy Hurt
fear	tweets	and i wish i gave you one last kiss
sadness	tweets	@brighternoise really??
fear	tweets	My vibe is currently downed.  The only thing amusing me is my Joker shirt. *Looks down and pokes shirt* I want a peanut butter sandwich...
sadness	tweets	Nothing 2 do 2nte  Boooooooo! I'm totally bored!
sadness	tweets	I'm bored. I have a headache.
sadness	tweets	@amalah I am very jealous.  I was supposed to go see it in Seattle with a friend this summer but she had to bail out because of work
fear	tweets	@Dani___ okay, i'll finally get to meet Dia! that's her name, right? oh geez i'll feel so stupid if it's not.
fear	tweets	@ahr19 Yeah, I'm behind on my classic cinema calendar-making. I haven't had time to go see any anyway.
sadness	tweets	the tip of my finger hurts  lmao
sadness	tweets	my tummy kinda hurts!
sadness	tweets	i feel extremely depressed right now.
sadness	tweets	My head hurts....  Can wait to see the new photoshoot!!!!!!!
fear	tweets	This really sucks, I'm supposed to be home in a couple of days and I'm not  I hate borders and visa's.
sadness	tweets	sux gabe just told me to go to the afterparty and I have ID that works but I can't go
fear	tweets	@yes_i_am_jes YAY! congrats! i'm afraid to check my grades!
fear	tweets	@askegg Argh, I'm so sorry you couldn't come... It was great to get to know everyone...
sadness	tweets	Ugh I'm tired
fear	tweets	Gary Just tried the Ommegang Chocolate Indulgence: no chocolate, no indulgence, just ... metallic.  Best I can... http://ff.im/-3o7RV
fear	tweets	@symphnysldr what's goin on hun?  I'm worried about you
fear	tweets	Poor Johnny is sick   Looks like he'll be going to the vet tomorrow
sadness	tweets	A simple nice dinner doesn't exist in my world.
sadness	tweets	last day of school  so sad
sadness	tweets	Johnny actually invited me to the movies but i have too many things to do before the concert
sadness	tweets	@kraeth She really loves that ride, doesn't she?  Too bad I wasn't there recording it
fear	tweets	i have a headache
sadness	tweets	My dreams have been crushed...Spock does not like the ladies.
fear	tweets	@heyrai wow how ominious was that   im stayin in the house. n nobodys comin over either!!! LoL
fear	tweets	Really big spider on the floor two metres away from me  am actually a little scared.
sadness	tweets	is missing the fun she had with @Sylars_Army at Eclipse 3  #SArmy #SArmy #SArmy
fear	tweets	I hate dreaming that your at some awesome party and you wake up at home, there was jager at the party too
fear	tweets	Anybody else experiencing painful slowdowns with facebook?
fear	tweets	Wow, I didn't realize my seats were so far back.  I hope I can enjoy the show enough for what I paid for the tickets.
fear	tweets	Oh No!!!! I must be gettin old!!!! My mom use to watch this show....I miss her
fear	tweets	Moving is hard work! This is my last night in the house I grew up in.
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67wb4 - Gotta a show on Monday at 9.... hopefully my head will be better by then....
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso i'm about to have to hang up   my fone is getting to hot
sadness	tweets	Okay i feel really sick now
fear	tweets	Just finished bowling with my family.  It's definately not the same as with my friends
sadness	tweets	@glennbeck Missed your show tonight   Just HAD to go up to Lake Erie and enjoy the quiet!
sadness	tweets	I've been to Rome, Italy. I love it there. Elegance, style. Very difficult to live in Chicago. No elegance here. Sad.
sadness	tweets	ended up face to face with a bear on 181 driving home this evening.  Sadly he took off into the woods before i hauled out my cameraphone
sadness	tweets	i need to speak with @sofiedeville! but i left my phone at home
fear	tweets	In the dentist chair with a very numb left side for crown prep. Not fun to keep mouth open this long
sadness	tweets	I regret not going to the Movie audition today  Seems like my neighbors are gonna get a call back .  http://myloc.me/21RK
fear	tweets	My tweetdeck won't pull up.
fear	tweets	missing cat makes me sad
fear	tweets	@loldarian OMG SO srry to hear that
fear	tweets	@Jayme1988 Hi SweetiePie!! It's Friday night and I'm .... missing my sidekick &amp; his slippers.  It's just not Friday night w/o him.
sadness	tweets	Fuuuuuuuudgeee I burned my finger with oil! It hurts
fear	tweets	I want a new UI  But I don't want to actually set it up myself.
fear	tweets	@Rosellyanna lol i know  and haha..did you fall asleep?? or just get bored of shaun :p joke
sadness	tweets	This is dumb. I keep losing followers!
sadness	tweets	big sis moved out 2day  its gna b weird without her! X
fear	tweets	Friday night... And I'm not doing anything!!  But I might go have some tacos at the lunch truck in Pasadena .... Just maybe.
sadness	tweets	@TheSvilleNews http://twitpic.com/67kb6 - Sad day!  What a great guy and enthusiastic teacher.
sadness	tweets	another friday night with nothing to do ...boyfriend works until 1am
sadness	tweets	Can't believe preseason doesn't start until August  football with drawls..
sadness	tweets	@rosegraymusic Tuned to listen, but had a 1:30 meeting. Now know that my high school/college French doesn't cut it anymore.
fear	tweets	The engine on my car blew
sadness	tweets	Home. Got some nice plugs but no chipotle
sadness	tweets	aleesha's piggy died  she can't catch a fucking break man
fear	tweets	Well, Sacramento, I hope you appreciate Rivkah Sass &amp; treat her well. I'll be sitting here in Omaha, pouting
fear	tweets	Caught in a herd of somalions
fear	tweets	WHY DOES MY COUSIN PICK TODAY TO NOT TURN UP EARLY
fear	tweets	@JuliaWo I feel your pain... dont you hate those days
sadness	tweets	I had a realization today, and it made me sad  But at least the healing can begin.
sadness	tweets	@cohenster i know its awful  but never fear i've got loads of funds so we can have a drunken catch up post-exams ja?
fear	tweets	@saamanthajaane :o exams. YUCK    that will be hectic!
sadness	tweets	@marsacademy *HUGS you*  awwww......i'm sorry you are feeling sad E!
fear	tweets	@tashamclellan Oh nooo  I'm sorry you can't go!
sadness	tweets	@emmaroo INNERCHILD!SARAH LIKES COOKIES AND IS SAD THAT YOU FEEL SAD AND GUILTY
sadness	tweets	@no_surprises unfortunately yes
fear	tweets	@mlexiehayden How would I know if u didn't tell me??? Too busy cakin to pay me any attention
sadness	tweets	Sum1 plz cheer me up
sadness	tweets	@selenagomez come back to canada soon  we'll miss you!!
sadness	tweets	@writeinink sure i can talk....the fabulous sex part though is out  sorry dear
fear	tweets	Im soooooooo damn hungry!! wat 2 eat??
sadness	tweets	@natsolovelyx3: I knowww yur mother is being a bitch and she doesn't want to take me to the movies  bitch
fear	tweets	@HimOverThere aww noooo that doesn't sound too great
sadness	tweets	@drbri I'm not sure as I've never used it. Sorry
fear	tweets	shiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit advanced databases in 8 hours and 13 minutes  fail
sadness	tweets	@Kdpartak the ordered me a new blackberry to arrive TUES! I may die between now and them without phone  I have withdraws already
fear	tweets	iPhone is doing that &quot;not opening downloaded apps&quot; thing and I forgot my cord at home
fear	tweets	@_juliamarie people just don't appreciate nature. it's sad. did the lil dude survive?
fear	tweets	@TwoSteppinAnt Damn
sadness	tweets	@tellie_jean Now that I think about it, when I get to the States, they'll probably still be touring, so they won't be there  Dammit!
sadness	tweets	@mattpicasso iPhone is doing that &quot;not opening downloaded apps&quot; thing and I forgot my cord at home
fear	tweets	I will miss the soccer moms
sadness	tweets	oh and #antiboyle didn't work out either  never too much of a bad thing eh uk eh
fear	tweets	iamkiara__  im so sick  I fell over last night outside coz I was putting something in the bin
sadness	tweets	@angel0712 Oh, I totally want to see Star Trek!  But Kristine had already seen it with her hubby.
fear	tweets	A little irked at the moment
sadness	tweets	@CaitEggers I need one too.
fear	tweets	Dentist  my tooth really hurts! &amp;0hhh yeahh I'm with this girl @ashliebrillault maybe you know her? She was Kate on lizzie mcguireee!&lt;3
fear	tweets	I'm fighting off feeling sick. Hoping it's just tired. I'm really not feeling too well, though
fear	tweets	@Dannymcfly i wanna a picture with u, in the hotel the security didn't allow me  it's so sad, i don't even know when i'm gonna see u again
sadness	tweets	Mrs.Bates left
fear	tweets	Greenville Drive games just aren't the same without the &quot;Baseball Guy&quot; clown.
fear	tweets	fighting a cold.
sadness	tweets	@robo__rob IKR. but i hate the lack of troyella  ggmow always makes me so sad
fear	tweets	Aww I have a tummy ache
sadness	tweets	how sad was Hollyoaks
fear	tweets	driving past Tattered Cover w/o stopping  promising myself to make time next week.
fear	tweets	@pandjcrafts yeah I'd just uploaded 20 pics &amp; positioned them just right, then 'poof' gone, before I could save
sadness	tweets	Exhausted after a 58 hour work week
fear	tweets	I need people to shoot so I can work on my new post processing technique.. but I need to show off the PP before people will want to!
fear	tweets	@HughHefnerJr uh oh u gonna fire somebody??
fear	tweets	Driving home to trade cars  hopefully it makes it! http://myloc.me/21SL
sadness	tweets	@AnalystAlterEgo i have bad news... i have to go take the dog for a walk--they're upset w/me!
sadness	tweets	Drat. All my land boots died at once. I think of boots like parsley- one going to seed, the other first season. What to do now?
sadness	tweets	Got out of work late. Lame! Busy day.
sadness	tweets	@pcdnicole so sad u cancelled silverstone show  better see u in sandown park!
fear	tweets	Thinking about Debra leaving in July.
sadness	tweets	@iamsuperbianca Oh, and I went with my friend to MYOH last night but they ran out of tarsier pins. So sad. He was really cute.
fear	tweets	oh!, I wanna buy Just That Girl - Drew Seeley, but I'm not allowed  I'm talking itunes store)
fear	tweets	@ChellyBelle I'm chopped liver.
fear	tweets	Misses her work peeps
fear	tweets	has just finished reading Twilight and thought it was crap...okay, it was alright...okay, i love it and really wanna read the next one
fear	tweets	I don't feel well at all
fear	tweets	there is poor lost duck outside of Olive Garden. that makes me sad
sadness	tweets	It's too hot!! Thermometer showing 25c at the moment
sadness	tweets	@scopezum I feel the same way! 9 hours of sleep and still exhausted! ahh!
fear	tweets	@HimOverThere gosh, poor thing! Get well soon, leg.  xx
sadness	tweets	Last day of the TV up-fronts w/ our colleagues from Sydney, Paris, London...
fear	tweets	Sitting and waiting and hoping this lady would hurry the hell up... I hate moving... It super sucks...
sadness	tweets	Feeling pretty tired and lonely
sadness	tweets	@Susan_Ferman that's so weak!!  facebook fail
sadness	tweets	Panda express, it's been so long. I've missed you
sadness	tweets	Just took $10 off a guy who thinks he can bluff three times in a row and get away with it. Now back to showing how shit my work is
fear	tweets	@WordofSouth Damn brah, u not happy?
fear	tweets	went on a long 10 mile bike ride today, then it started raining
fear	tweets	@Cre8tiveSin sarcasm?  i need a PJ to fly to the hotspots and party and fly home for work the next day
sadness	tweets	: doc said my bones look &quot;fine enough.&quot; also should see a rhumatologist. I'm such am old lady now
fear	tweets	@BuzzEdition You're welcome. Hey, have you sent love @CTK1 's way? In hospital today for surgery to sort old motorbike accident
fear	tweets	Ugh, migraine.
fear	tweets	cowering from pain
fear	tweets	Can't stop coughing, feel like I might have bronchitis again, no fun
sadness	tweets	... And, I was the only person who stood up for them. The world is full if spineless cunts. This makes me sad
fear	tweets	my phone is going to die too prematurely
sadness	tweets	tried to swat a fly with my Buddhist magazine... bad karma
sadness	tweets	I'm in tantra, anyone from kirki will know how sad this is, I'm drowning my sorrows ;)
sadness	tweets	@JVB Thanks, I just found a article that say i cannot join you because i am in the UK though
fear	tweets	@ArtOfDying any chance you might come back to moncton? i had to miss the show tonight
fear	tweets	My birthday is on Wednesday. I'm too young to feel this old.
fear	tweets	I don't feel good
fear	tweets	@greentm what happened yesterday? but phone calls with unwell parents - yeah .. know how that goes ...  .. i have two of them now ... meh
sadness	tweets	he was the reason i lived and now hes the reason im begging to die
sadness	tweets	youtube not working
fear	tweets	@rickoshea whats up rick??
fear	tweets	Man! I need to make-up that $35 loss.. this is why I'm going to hustle this weekend AKA not going to have a nice, relaxing weekend.
fear	tweets	@ladyjori whaaaat what about your house? You've been working so hard on it!
sadness	tweets	i feel sad for you elizabeth.
fear	tweets	@SinsualDzires phone updated and she's got a camcorder on her phone now--mine hasn't updated chit  that ain't fair .
fear	tweets	It's a sad day when Christian Lacroix has to file for bankruptcy
sadness	tweets	to the people i was txting... sorry phone is dead and i can't resurrect it.  hopefully verizon will replace it and i'll it back by tonight
sadness	tweets	Dosen't Want To Go To Work Tomorrow
fear	tweets	@crescentdreams everything.  *weeps*
fear	tweets	feeling even worse today
fear	tweets	tomorrow should be good. but apparently no movies
fear	tweets	AHHHHH I needa hurry up and shower before this &quot;HUGE&quot; storm hits
sadness	tweets	Wish I could be heading to LA for E3.  *le sigh* Maybe someday.
fear	tweets	didn't get to see his movie!
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso I'm never calling you again. Your phone is a scammer. It said I'm next and it hung up on me.  Now I can't get you.
fear	tweets	Am listening to Darren Hayes's Spin. Am talkin to my wacky friend who's going insane. I ain't at all tired and I'm messed up bout things.
fear	tweets	fml. i stepped on a needle.. ouch.. waaaaa  damn drycleaners
fear	tweets	wishes her love was coming home
fear	tweets	@ Barbs trying to figure out y the dsl aint connecting. I need my google. Going home to my computer if it don't start working soon. SMH
fear	tweets	the muscle in my back is cramping up, hurts so bad! owww
fear	tweets	@lyndygirl any suggestions on how to get rid of that lovely gasoline smell? As it is still in my car
fear	tweets	Wonders why its so hard for me to concentrate...
sadness	tweets	...No more adventure time
sadness	tweets	i miss you
sadness	tweets	Uggh everything, I'm sending you!!! I keep sending it to my Twitter. So I have to forward it to you!!! I suck at life
fear	tweets	riding daddy's bike (yes a man's bike, very convenient! NOT) in the dark without glasses on. i was scared  but i survived HAHA
fear	tweets	@yelyahwilliams it could be a bad idea, Hayley
fear	tweets	@ladymaryann No news yet
fear	tweets	good night fellow Twitterati. back to work tomorrow
fear	tweets	I got battery acid in an open wound on my index finger  Fuck, it burned so much.
fear	tweets	@officialSPChuck did not understand anything you said
fear	tweets	still no date for bon iver next week
fear	tweets	still babysitting, i want another boost
sadness	tweets	I got into a fight with the pavement. I think it won  poor little knee
sadness	tweets	Had to stay home while my wife takes my daughter and a few friends out to Tokyo Steak House - sadly my body is not cooperating today
fear	tweets	My twitterberry doesn't work!
sadness	tweets	This &quot;Monarchy&quot; is gonna bleed ALL of us dry! We are nothing more than slaves to the pigs in D.C. I don't reconize my country anymore!
fear	tweets	crazy kids won't nap!  I think it's the heat... and I still have to tell them that they can't go to Grandma's cuz she's sick
fear	tweets	@Gaylib1986 it was just areply on you facebook status that you were a little upset
fear	tweets	blip.fm is on it's last legs
sadness	tweets	staying at home. unpacking!!!! crap!
sadness	tweets	@summerkristine i want you to go walking with me!! but i still miss my satan
fear	tweets	ahh im getting really tired and ej isnt up yet! im might have to go to sleep without talking to her again
fear	tweets	Still feeling weird about my ex and her engagement.  My mom made things worse.  I don't even want her, but it's still odd
sadness	tweets	I'm either always on the train or at work
sadness	tweets	I have to go to work.
fear	tweets	being at work while sick blows! kill me. i feel like crap
fear	tweets	i'm sorry i'm neglecting you, twitter.
sadness	tweets	head hurt
fear	tweets	Wishing laying on my side wasn't the only comfortable position, I am tired of laying
fear	tweets	I've got to meet him tomorrow, midday and hopefully, fingers crossed, it'll all be sorted. My head is still hurting though.
fear	tweets	@Lujee #3aaah mosh 3aref a facebook any more
fear	tweets	im hangin out with my cousin holly and tlkin 2 my grandparents.......  my phone went dead
fear	tweets	@xsparkage imagine if you really were lost and lost all contact with DT!  that'd be the saddest day of my life haha
sadness	tweets	1) Traffic is lame 2) No matter how hard I try I can't get anywhere on time   3) UP Movie!!!!! Yay!
sadness	tweets	Its summer and no one has texted/called me. Im a loner
sadness	tweets	Killer headache  I want my food to be here!
fear	tweets	I am not doing much  all well!
fear	tweets	@selenagomez don't leave us
sadness	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67x7n - MISS THEM ALREADY
sadness	tweets	Sad I missed @tylerhwilliams going away party due to too much work, but I really am gonna miss that kid
sadness	tweets	slept in, missed bus, train delayed, doesn't stop at my stop, late for work. fucking heelllll
fear	tweets	My back hurts
fear	tweets	Well, I made the list look better, but I can't do anything about the number pictures, since I already closed that tab.
sadness	tweets	why must the weather b so nice and then so bad all in 1 minute
fear	tweets	7.53.  7 minutes till 8. This is not my best day.  I`m late for class again.
sadness	tweets	can't find my trusty hair tie  My hair will spill all over the place when I run!Mom's bands doesn't work for me,normal ones hurt.(((
sadness	tweets	ugh gone through 2 new phones and now my screen is black, which means no texting
fear	tweets	@OfficialRyChris *waving* you wanna come get Diablo, he barked so much til he made himself sick
fear	tweets	Ok.....Twitter is not near as exciting as I thought it would be!
fear	tweets	i do indeed have tonsillitis. the only good thing: ive been advised to eat lots of ice cream. [but no solid foods  &amp; im bed ridden.]
sadness	tweets	My mouth hurts. Wish I could cut my head off
sadness	tweets	selling my drumset  sad day
sadness	tweets	omg, NO ICECREAM
sadness	tweets	@SimpleMia Yes. Need to listen to sad SP-Songs
sadness	tweets	I got up early to pay bills. I figured its like a bandaid if I get it over quickly it won't be so bad... I was wrong
fear	tweets	@LULuwanderlust whatever don't make me feel bad!  ill bring you a surprise
fear	tweets	@kericontrary not  you, me, just drank too much.
fear	tweets	@iCharlotte My original non-Yahoo acc. was deleted when they got bought-out  But it's not too bad, I don't receive any Yahoo-spam from it.
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/54khn - I am very sad. They cut down my Pink Tree. I noticed it when I left today to get Betos
fear	tweets	dont wanna go to mississppi!!!!!!!! UGH!! texas is my home..... UPSET!!!
fear	tweets	bummed about the softball loss 0-1   These girls are so good at only 12!
sadness	tweets	7pm on a Fri night &amp; I'm sitting at home alone...
sadness	tweets	OOUCHHHH I just pinched my own nipple by accident trying to fix my top
fear	tweets	@verwon nice .. I can't ever get that from my ex!
sadness	tweets	lost some $ at work....nt happy right now    --SLOANSTER--
fear	tweets	@jimwtodd I don't know! She never answered me
sadness	tweets	Not feelin right. Hope the feeling passes. Stupid stomach.
fear	tweets	i wanna go home
sadness	tweets	Xfiles disc doesn't work.. Rippin
sadness	tweets	really sick and tired but my body's resisting rest!
sadness	tweets	@BuddyTV Excited about the new Pushing Daisies episodes but it makes it that much worse.  I had finally gotten over the cancellation.
fear	tweets	@inkyoctopus I always forget SOMETHING when I travel. I am at Newark airport.
fear	tweets	Marley crying for more ball throwing....keeps eying me through the door
sadness	tweets	UP is the saddest movie i've ever seen
fear	tweets	Life is over! Just went to get tickets for all time low, sold out  anyone got spares or wanna sell me theirs?
fear	tweets	I'm miserable with my boredom.
fear	tweets	blehhh i feel poopie. i have a fever and my whole body hurtssss   FML
sadness	tweets	@1045CHUMFM Oh ok,Thanks.Dont know where the courthouse id either,I'll learn though.Any nkotb? Twitter stole my pic again  it hates me
fear	tweets	@ddrdiva @laurapasik @that70sgrl I've always been a ppl person just hid behind bad self confidence for 2 long  u can do anything!
sadness	tweets	My computer dies soon  - its so much virus on it but my virus scanner  cant find it :S
sadness	tweets	I think i am getting a cold
fear	tweets	@Stace3811 I'm sorry you aren't having a good day.  cheer up though, your day doesn't define you...
fear	tweets	Missing my baby ducks
fear	tweets	lied last weekend when she said she wouldn't get upset, just an FYI.
fear	tweets	in a very stress mood
fear	tweets	Any Windows 7 users out there have any tips on how to make the default install NOT take up 15GB??  I knew it would be big, but srsly...
fear	tweets	@selenagomez  noo Selena i really wanted to see you soo badly im your biggest fan dont make me cry
fear	tweets	@starletta8 Oh that's too bad.  Do you just get sick when there's too much heat? I do
sadness	tweets	@angelicaaa workies with dad?  aw that sucks working on saturday morning. I'm about to study, when are your exams?
sadness	tweets	@RealLifeKaz we cant come toniiiite !! arggh i want to tho  have fun for uss. well def see u 2morrow nite tho!
fear	tweets	Okay haileys really gone now.  everyone keep her in your prayers.
fear	tweets	can't school just be done already? it hurts too much... seeing him every day
fear	tweets	WTF? Twitter doesnt support messages from my phone -I wanted to be able to Twit while on vacay.   Poo on you Twitter
sadness	tweets	I'm very upset right now, like I can't even formulate a complete thought....
fear	tweets	@charmand3r oh no!  I hope you get on soon! &lt;3 I miss you and I can't wait to see you again.
sadness	tweets	@Tracybelle I'd hang with you, but... Tennessee.
fear	tweets	im wearing a certain tye dye tshirt at the moment. and it misses its 8 counterparts...
sadness	tweets	really ill atm
fear	tweets	* My besties. If only @ddlovato was there.  on Twitpic: http://twitpic.com/67hac - My besties. If only @ddlova.. http://twitpic.com/67hac
sadness	tweets	131 miles away
fear	tweets	@BrittneyCash Shame about your job  have you thought about working for yourself?  there's big money to be paid http://bit.ly/1864ml
fear	tweets	@charlieskies am i too late for a cuppa?
sadness	tweets	going to a work people party then going home to visit Grandma. Sadness
fear	tweets	Well this is just lovely.  I am completely flattened by a back injury.  There goes the weekend.
sadness	tweets	Poor @IMissBradAndJen 's mom just told her she looked like a hooker.  The skirt wasn't THAT short, and it's 87 degrees out!
fear	tweets	Woa NOBODY is inside the movie theater... Its termenator ppl shud be in here... Scary
fear	tweets	grrh my phone (brand new might i add) keep just switching itself off and others are saying theirs does the same
sadness	tweets	Boyfriend is out with friends tonight. Don't know what to do with my evening
sadness	tweets	about to start my least favourite chore.... mopping the floor
fear	tweets	@vmarinelliRVA Parvo sucks. So sorry pup has it.  I lost a puppy to parvo many moons back. Still sad over it. Hope he's better soon
sadness	tweets	poor bretty.  but yay phils
fear	tweets	going to look at a bunch of open homes today. just to get a feel for the market. i think i've got a lot of saving to do...
fear	tweets	Today was good but some people have friday attitudes...not good
sadness	tweets	my back hurts  have a heating pad on it... stupid ladder y did you have to collapse and make me fall on my back/bum???
fear	tweets	My poor little 7mth old was taken to hospital yesterday. We are syringe feeding him at home because he doesn't want to drink.
fear	tweets	Gah... why is my Macbook Pro getting so frickin' hot just sitting on the table doing nothing?
fear	tweets	oh no.... please... dont do that to yourself again
sadness	tweets	damn...plans were canceled.....another friday night at home
fear	tweets	wow, 5 pm rolled around really fast. I accomplished only one thing on my to do list today...
sadness	tweets	just goy back from a day of tests at the hospital. going to start chemo on monday
sadness	tweets	cant believe ER is all over
sadness	tweets	wants to go see street dreams but it's not playing anywhere near here
fear	tweets	@DSTheStar1121 REALLY?? oh.. sorry yall  lol
fear	tweets	My saying now  http://bctiny.com/po4me
sadness	tweets	There is a MacBook Pro sitting close by and my poor MacBook is ashamed with it's plastic face and sides...
fear	tweets	@xx_Megan_xx Thats all i've seen too   5 till 7 is the 2 hours I normally sleep so I missed it :mad: haha
fear	tweets	Working on a Friday night
sadness	tweets	@JonathanRKnight understands you it's long the 6 hour
sadness	tweets	Big Sad Face   Bing doesn't work on iPhone.  It just takes you to the regular mobile Live search.
sadness	tweets	@natbubba yeah, totally unfair.  we should just. FLAME THEM EVERYWHERE
fear	tweets	I'm so freaking afraid that once again I've managed to stick my foot in my mouth and scare yet another person off . . .
fear	tweets	going 2 watch Dogtown, hope it's not too sad!
fear	tweets	Just found out that Anne's brother died unexpectedly - he was only 44.  Warm thoughts going out to her family...
sadness	tweets	well movie night spoilt by fracked up disk-happiness gone, so time for sleep
sadness	tweets	@TheStoryStarts nothing aimed at you, just joining in...sorry
sadness	tweets	@theREALGiftedNJ yeah it is
fear	tweets	Is in bed not able to sleep  bloody bipolar!
fear	tweets	I dont believe in my eyes or should I say on my browser? OMG OMG OMG
fear	tweets	i miss my old phone it worked so good until i dropped it  i want a new one for my birthday...
fear	tweets	@Haunt1013 Sorry RB is on PS3 for me
sadness	tweets	Thank you Google for your Adsense Payment.  If only the Aussie dollar wasn't as strong
fear	tweets	@Cowbelly I really want to!! But it's one of my few free weekends that month and am booking clients  Mama needs to make money.
sadness	tweets	@mpellegrini hurts to be you! Sunshine all weekend and you don't get to play. That's sad.
sadness	tweets	Has been a long day - Matinee and evening show. Will be sad tomorrow: last ever Welsh College show
sadness	tweets	Hitting up a bar or two most people being lame tonight
fear	tweets	Grass fed beef burgers with sauteed mushrooms and cheddar on wheat buns along with a salad. Yum. Poor Kim still isn't feeling well
fear	tweets	Still sick  bout to play some ps3 till the laker game starts
fear	tweets	i will be without an assistant for the next week
fear	tweets	Startin to get a head ache!!!! Uuuggghh!!!
fear	tweets	busy working on a new kit... and a couple interviews done...Yea! The weekend! Pray for my Uncle, still young and had a massive stroke!!
fear	tweets	I don't want to sit at home on prom night. Someone hang out with me
fear	tweets	Printing from Opera gives me a much better result (but printing to PDF it names it _stdin_.pdf) - always gotta compromise
sadness	tweets	@ohhhbeka PS: Wish I were coming tonight.
fear	tweets	i get a message that my account is suspended as far as i know i haven't violated any terms contacting twitter now..
fear	tweets	@dorr did some research, but couldn't find the specific thing which i wanna do with this drive's autorun
sadness	tweets	my ipod died  not running until it is charged.
fear	tweets	@hookedonheat what was it? I missed it.
fear	tweets	@lomara It was a lot of stress, though, so with that and supporting two big families he never quit smoking and died of lung cancer at 51.
fear	tweets	zzzzz.. best friend going to europe in a few hours  .. i'm gonna miss her! hope she has fun though
sadness	tweets	@superstarnikki its just one of those days....
fear	tweets	@Lindsay_007 so I tried to send you a direct message and I can't because you aren't following me
fear	tweets	@ermadea sorry about your sadness   nitenite love
fear	tweets	back home from shopping. putting stuff away and waiting for nets friend to come over. I guess I'll have to put my pants back on
fear	tweets	damn im so bummed out right now....nobody loves me
sadness	tweets	As it turns out I do NOT get to go see The Decemberists...
sadness	tweets	@EP31 I have that problem with adult shirts too. It's so annoying since a lot of adult player shirts don't come in kid sizes
fear	tweets	Wake Up..... Please.
fear	tweets	@gawhatafeeling Ooooh, I'm jealous  I might try and get some for the saturday but I have an exam on the monday that Im gonna fail
sadness	tweets	wants to hear his voice
sadness	tweets	Looks like my Twitter is down
sadness	tweets	@mitchelmusso i can't call you cause my portable sais that this number not excist  i want so much to talk to you
fear	tweets	@moozmum aw i'm sorry  i was rooting for you just to let you know!
fear	tweets	Fender is hiding under the couch ... he knows I'm getting ready to leave and he isn't happy about it
sadness	tweets	only 1 person online on MSN. I feel lonely
sadness	tweets	i going to go to bed &amp; i failed miserably at booking a holiday  although i do seem to have a new follower. HIGH FIVE. X
sadness	tweets	@mannyishere awww hes too cute!!wish i could've gone
fear	tweets	Trying to go to sleep but no luck  I think i'm sick... =S
fear	tweets	@mathewsanders Floor mopping sounds unappealing
fear	tweets	homework...boring
fear	tweets	This is not fair... bath again....
fear	tweets	today was such a horrible dayy
sadness	tweets	@fizzythoughts  Boo for being at work during #beatwittyparty but at least you're still here!
sadness	tweets	it's gloomy outside
fear	tweets	@killerannax oh no!  i'm sorry. at least you'll still be able to buy regular tickets and not worry about limits?
fear	tweets	is nervous about getting a house out in town
fear	tweets	@sullivancc14 haha I really don't but I'm going to this workshop at school next week. Are you going? Plus my car is broken right now
fear	tweets	Things that happened today:  My younger brother ran over one of our dogs. Yeah. I know.  She's going to have surgery this weekend.
sadness	tweets	(that was a  btw -_-)
fear	tweets	@LisaMongold I know.  I have such guilt associated with picking winners.
sadness	tweets	@stacyday Yeah, Trimet says it's a 1hr trip, I get home at 6:30/6:45-ish, so we'd arrive just as everyone was leaving.
fear	tweets	my head hurts....
fear	tweets	is on allegra, flonase and a steroid inhaler for the rest of the allergy season. throat still hurts from the asthma
fear	tweets	I wish I had more followers on twitter
sadness	tweets	@retrodiva I WISH I could be in bed by nine once in a while. I never make it in before 3-4 a.m.  #sleepdeprived. Doing too much.
fear	tweets	is spending her Saturday morning taking notes for a research essay because some stupid whore recalled the book I'm using. Not fair
sadness	tweets	@gasfreecommute -i'd love to be able to bike/bus/walk to work, but it isn't safe in my area
fear	tweets	STILL NOT DONE WITH PAYROLL. was supposed to be off at 4:30. i have a headache
sadness	tweets	@selenagomez AWWWW  we're gonna miss you!
sadness	tweets	I feel sorry for my bestie  good luck ali!
fear	tweets	zoombezi bay was soooo fun!! buuuut my legs are soooooo sunburnt
sadness	tweets	jungle book 2 is sooooo cute.. i have nothing to eat or drink
sadness	tweets	Got rocks. And found my car got birdied this evening.
sadness	tweets	@Crimsondreamer no bueno.  hollykins needs to feel better asap.  p.s. i miss you.  you done with uni soon aren't you?  SOPROUDOFYOU.
sadness	tweets	I heard an icecream truck and took of like a shot but I couldn't catch it.
fear	tweets	at my lil sis 8th grade graduation....i already kno dis is gonna last all my life
fear	tweets	@ehuffty i can't believe i missed the brewcast.
fear	tweets	Oh my Lord, I have no idea if any of this crap I spout is getting to anyone
sadness	tweets	@FLucio I'm a jerk...  now I can't go out    Dammit Frank, why do I suck so bad?
fear	tweets	Looks like I got a defective MacBook
fear	tweets	@PeterPolaco signin autographs would be boring I think! Get wasted 2nite! Have fun! I'm stuck at work
fear	tweets	@hardertospell why don't you have that song you gave me that song
fear	tweets	my car is broke
sadness	tweets	Aw, Zach wasn't feeling well  Hope he gets better. So babysitting was canceled.
fear	tweets	arrgghhhggguuuiiissshhhh no idea what to do for this modern assignement....  Burma or Cuba???? eeeep help!
sadness	tweets	Had a pretty good day. Let's see how the night goes. ;-) oh I have to work all day tomorrow no picnic for me
sadness	tweets	@AwkwardTown fuck! I'm already thinking about all the shows I'm going to have to miss because I'm broke.
fear	tweets	sooo im 20 n im just now findin out i have asthma
fear	tweets	last day of volleyball miss everyone already. Oh well, banquet on 10th hopefully everyones gonna be there
fear	tweets	@knw3 I watched it all online. http://www.musicistheheartofoursoul.com/search/label/Niptuck has the last 8 episodes of S5
fear	tweets	@Mszjai nvm i just got ur message that ur sick
fear	tweets	Last Heroes ep until Sept  Sick &amp; drugged for past 3 days. Dr says lacking in everything, esp -get this- SUNSHINE.
sadness	tweets	@dougreport how can I read the Floyd article says it's private
fear	tweets	Love how my printer decided to print all my blacks all marbled - 1hr before an interview for new work this morning.
sadness	tweets	is confused &amp; sad. oh no here comes the &quot;sweets&quot;, to cheer me up
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso I wish I would have called you. but unfortunatly, call the US from Scotland is a bit expensive  Gutted! &lt;3
sadness	tweets	tonights been boring!
sadness	tweets	Am I old? Pub kickin out time is whey too late, I'm stinkered:-/. Got the cubs tomorrow too  I'm gonna suffer !
fear	tweets	noone wants to talk to me  lol
sadness	tweets	i so can't be bothered working tomorrow!
fear	tweets	@mneylon I don't know what that means, sorry
fear	tweets	awake sadly        seeing Leon today !
sadness	tweets	Im Slowing on My Tweets..Cuase I Lost My Phone
fear	tweets	I wish I didn't have to work two jobs
fear	tweets	Too tired
sadness	tweets	It's friday and I'd love to party, but don't have a sitter.
sadness	tweets	Waiting for the Denver game to come on.. but i dont think their gonna win it  Lakers suck lol :p
fear	tweets	#myweawkness chocolate...i can't say no
fear	tweets	just woke up still fukin sick
fear	tweets	sigh, my sisters bein strange.. she came all the way from copenhagen to london, and now her phones turned off.. i wanna see her dammit
fear	tweets	@laurenbreslin aww i know its my addiction!   awww i know sameee  !  its just more more more !
fear	tweets	@SaraJayXXX OMG .. my memory must have failed me! Very weird since I do not normally forget because of my profession!
sadness	tweets	Cleaned four bathrooms this afternoon....(yes, go ahead and feel sorry for me...lol)....mine are still waiting for my attention
fear	tweets	@SweetThang15 Aww  Yeah I feel you. I know its hard.
sadness	tweets	@ev I'm trying really hard not to hate you.
fear	tweets	@torie007 yeah, and now you live in the 'hood! I never would have thunk it  What's up with these shootings in Belmont Shore?? Sheesh.
sadness	tweets	Booo my best friend is leavin for the weekend. What ever will I do without her??
sadness	tweets	@triniaguirre i miss you  !!!! ??
fear	tweets	stopped at the store to pick up some items and debit card is missing
sadness	tweets	confused, angry, anxious and on top of everything LONELY
fear	tweets	help! anyone know if there are stores that carry blackberry trackballs? just went to verizon retailer; no luck. do not want to order one
fear	tweets	taking Willy to the specialist...poor dog! He has to get a CT scan cos he can't walk properly atm
fear	tweets	@tmjassociation y does it hurt so much? i can't even chew gum.  i've lost so much weight because i can't even eat
sadness	tweets	@ss1271 yes, that's what I meant... I don't have anything to turn it into Hirigana, though.
fear	tweets	@RealGrace my @Bonnaroo tix are in limbo....as usual  #UPSsucks
fear	tweets	At subway. Not feeling good
sadness	tweets	i miss him  ALOT but im not gonna talk to him, i HOPE
sadness	tweets	Why are embossers so expensive? Can I do get one on the cheap? Trying to save 75%. Papersource order goes in TONIGHT. Sry bank account
fear	tweets	@nathanblevins Ouch. I won't be down in Miami tomorrow morning. That sucks  It's a cruise? Are you driving back the next Saturday?
sadness	tweets	Grandma Caminker passed away today.  She will be missed, but may she rest in peace.
fear	tweets	Too many cocktails last night, my head hurts
sadness	tweets	UGH. why is it so hard to upload a picture on twitter?
sadness	tweets	Just saw a dooope bmw 6 series parked with the top back....to bad it was raining
fear	tweets	Is losing money in Vegas...
sadness	tweets	Sh t, I'm getting even more sad. I'm currently at the library and j think it'll be the last one tooooo
fear	tweets	Its been a slow day at home, one of my kids is sick  .  This little picture cheered me up http://is.gd/JrLa
fear	tweets	here comes the storm.....ackkkk
fear	tweets	Why isnt my internet working
fear	tweets	@shereemcfly09 ooh thats an early start  ive got bed planned for that time..ha..LoveYouJonesy XxX
fear	tweets	So sad that Aki is out for the rest of the season!
sadness	tweets	upset.. friday night crying!
fear	tweets	Wishing I could see N*E*R*D headline @ Fest at DePaul tonight
fear	tweets	wants to go home and see Erin
fear	tweets	I have no one to go to the spring show with
fear	tweets	@ZAmmi *hugs*  I'm so sorry.. anything I can do?
fear	tweets	@BonjourHoney Guilt trips, feeling sick, pressure. stress and too much drama
sadness	tweets	trying to fix my sister's ipod  then phoenix tomorrow morning at 445am! hopefully i'll actually get to play this tournament. stupid fence.
fear	tweets	Not legally old enough  to get a summer job outside of babysitting.
fear	tweets	Working too hard.    At least graduations are over.
fear	tweets	just said goodbye to the younger bro.  #misshimalready
sadness	tweets	@Mattshiloh Unfortunately your fix didn't work..   Oh well, I'm lovin' me some PeopleBrowsr anyways!
fear	tweets	@nicolacrossley. Tickets, i need my tickets, where are my tickets. i want my ticketttttss
fear	tweets	The underwire in my bra is sticking out and poking me in the armpit
fear	tweets	i fear the spaceship is not long for this earth. it just stranded me and edwin on the highway. there was smoke
sadness	tweets	Some things are better left unsaid . Its better if only i know
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/67ykt - We are losing so far.....
sadness	tweets	says our power went out...which RARELY ever happens...and i hadn't saved my sims game in a while.  http://plurk.com/p/x334f
sadness	tweets	@BunnyBridget I would LOVE to learn trapeze! I've wanted to do that since I was a kid. Sadly, there's no place where I live that teaches
fear	tweets	its weird how thinking about may 2nd totally changed my crappy mood to happiness...i miss @honorsociety so much
sadness	tweets	Livin on ur own iznt nice at all. I miss my mum
sadness	tweets	Oh my ex / room mate is moving out today
fear	tweets	own 2nit but i cant go.
fear	tweets	to save my heart I think Imma let go! I can see myself getting hurt with you!
sadness	tweets	@TomCopestake  I'm sorry. You'll get there don't worry, one day at a time.  We should 'hang' when you're done.
fear	tweets	Waiting for the Denver game to come on.. but i dont think their gonna win it  Lakers suck lol :p.... Come on Denver!!
fear	tweets	@imlostinbooks It's up now, @Vasilly and @Devourerofbooks won.  Sorry
fear	tweets	@JuliaBronwyn I accidently dropped it &amp; now the screen is all messed
sadness	tweets	I get an instant sad face when I see a little kid lose their balloon
fear	tweets	i dont noe what to eat for breakfast hmmmmmmm im so hungry
sadness	tweets	@davidmihm Please no more tweet-memes
sadness	tweets	So tired and I have 17 hours to work tomorrow
sadness	tweets	chick fil a for dinner. Hopefully I feel better. My head and eyes are killing me
fear	tweets	Restoring my iPod touch seemed like euthanasia to me. I was willingly killing it.
fear	tweets	My mom has annoyed the living crap outta me, so now we're on AOL Radio, looking for Brooks &amp; Dunn.
sadness	tweets	More depressed ty very much!!!
sadness	tweets	headaches are dumb.
fear	tweets	Golfing ended early
fear	tweets	Hate to break every1's heart but confirmation jus came in that Austin &amp; Sophia do NOT &amp; never had a twitter  another sad day!!
fear	tweets	St joe is dirty.
fear	tweets	@vmarinelliRVA I am so so sorry to hear that he has parvo. Good vibes comming your way.
sadness	tweets	@donttreeriddle Oh noes!! Melted ice cream = do not want.
fear	tweets	layenn down,uughh dunt feel well
fear	tweets	It just occured to me..... tonight is Cheri's Prom Night......I was suppose to go with her...... 970 miles makes that kind of difficult.
sadness	tweets	missing someonee...
sadness	tweets	My arms hurt
sadness	tweets	OMG how sad is The Royle Family where Nana dies  I am sobbing!!!! :*( it's the saddest thing I've ever watched
sadness	tweets	@MyInnerCougar Sorry your day was so bad   Gettin the drink on, good plan!
sadness	tweets	Omnomnom    JUST came online to 69 unread emails, as well as my backlog from yesterday  http://tinyurl.com/lxjdjc
sadness	tweets	[H]ouse starts on Sunday and I'm sad as I can't afford Sky,
sadness	tweets	@RVDS dammit i wanted to ask you about someone who i might be shooting but cant remember her name now
fear	tweets	is watching &quot;Wall Street&quot;, and realizing that since it is on a movie channel she won't get a potty break
fear	tweets	GRRRR!!! It's BACK!!!!! And what I mean is my headache  But on the *       *        bright side....it's only on one side!!!! /\/\/\/\/\
sadness	tweets	@norasake Sadly no. It didn't come with one...
fear	tweets	@framolamdu omg what a shame about Hollie,just watched that clip u posted
fear	tweets	Suffering from  Hemorrhoids.
sadness	tweets	@KSegIII  my cousins moved there like 2 years ago and I miss them so much. I was just looking at their facebook and now im sad
fear	tweets	also I managed to ink half more page. unfortunately page 006 will totally suck, but at least I tried hard before I decided to move on
fear	tweets	@VWayne noo sorry my love...after that i'm going to pop about 7 zyrtec and go to sleep
fear	tweets	No waterfront anymore   faccia luna and clarendon will have to do
sadness	tweets	Going to bed watching a bit of qi. Wake up tomorrow to face the start of my last summer in bath. Bit gutted atm to be home
sadness	tweets	study study study.  What fun on a Saturday.
sadness	tweets	Stupid shopping bags left a red mark on my arm
fear	tweets	@dictums honey perhaps some medicine? i feel bad for you? do you have fever?
fear	tweets	@sxtxixtxcxh @b0r3d13 but they're hungryyyyyy
fear	tweets	I ran over a turtle.
sadness	tweets	not a very good day at the house
sadness	tweets	really tired. and have to work the whole day tomorrow, the thought of it depresses me.  uncoooool....
fear	tweets	@deegirl825 you're just unhappy to return to occupying the same city as me  I am cry now too.
sadness	tweets	@AwkwardTown I know. I think I'm going to have to miss it, though.  This is when sacrificing money for job happiness sucks ass.
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso, i called your say naw and got a voicemail for a guy named shannon...
fear	tweets	@BullyOSullivan sorry to hear that.
sadness	tweets	Played a show tonight @ Chinnerys, southend. Snapped my guitar strap, ripped off the strings then threw my guitar across the stage...
sadness	tweets	@StanGill Uh.... what does that mean?
fear	tweets	@anthonyamor hey member when we were better friends then you and anthony. That was pretty sweet ha. Way to be a trader for the weiner.
fear	tweets	I'm nervous... I hope I get in... this could be a costly mistake... more like procrastination and assumption...
sadness	tweets	sitting around doing fuck all....tired
sadness	tweets	so bored...miss everybody already
fear	tweets	I miss Vermont
sadness	tweets	@rodmcnasty000  I miss you
sadness	tweets	@MyroneTadrid  aw her latest &quot; selenagomezLast day of shooting... Goodbye Canada. &quot;
sadness	tweets	It just had to rain on me almost a perfect day now my clothes are wet
fear	tweets	i dont feel very good
fear	tweets	@alilje why do you say that i'm a dick? i find that hurtful!
sadness	tweets	@bellagm yes that sucks. i miss you
fear	tweets	@dance2jeffreee lOL 518 that was not the year i was born  lol
fear	tweets	@juicystar007 I can't get in, I'm in a waiting room
fear	tweets	@MissJizzle Yeah, the economy sucks SO BAD.  Yeah, I know what a cafeteria is. I'm unemployed at the moment and I hate it!
sadness	tweets	Big Sam Houston is not big enough to overcome the challanges of moving-car-iphone photography  http://yfrog.com/0xhu5j
fear	tweets	My friend has sent me such a sweet sms. I can't wait to see you, I'm actually missing you
sadness	tweets	PLEASE PLEASE, ANYONE?
sadness	tweets	missing my bffls! missing my friday night dates!  hot dogs for dinner then who knows what the evening holds!
fear	tweets	UP is out today!!! Why why why why does my head hurt so badly??!?!??!!?   I want to see it!!!
sadness	tweets	@adamtheeditor I heard it was disappointing, which I am disappointed by before I've even seen it.  What a waste of C. Bale.
sadness	tweets	@TraceyHewins Tired! I may have to go to bed. Trouble is I miss all my American evening friends.     X
sadness	tweets	@CSURyan I am surprised you haven't fired @StuckeyCSU for announcing the whole world of they body they'd found &quot;Selfish&quot;
sadness	tweets	I don't like my dress
fear	tweets	@nomadiquemc I want to be at @urbangrind
sadness	tweets	Just got home from school LOL 2 1/2 weeks left yay!!! Then off 2 summer school
fear	tweets	@dougiemcfly http://twitpic.com/67uc7 - can you lend me one? I have a cold too
fear	tweets	officially has pink eye.
fear	tweets	the trip was really great. but i cant belive summers here
sadness	tweets	@RIngram08 glad u feel like cooking I'm so tired
fear	tweets	Want: To play Sacred 2... Reality: Spend all day at the hosp...
sadness	tweets	At my rehearsal...gonna miss the game  please keep me updated! Go Nuggets!
fear	tweets	@HeWhoWrites Aww I feel bad for the lil nigga. He look like he know what's coming
sadness	tweets	@jessicaca yeah i know  been dealin with it for over 2 yrs now
sadness	tweets	@cthundr How could you go to Cali without me??? I'm sad.
fear	tweets	@BullyOSullivan Oh no! So sorry about your pets..
sadness	tweets	is feeling sad  I so dont do goodbye'z!!!!
sadness	tweets	@Xx_JessicaB_xX yip.....aw gonna miss them on bb
fear	tweets	This has been a dismal week.
fear	tweets	the $60,000 i spent going to college was well spent.  I'm going to meet a man tomorrow in the Toys'R'Us parking lot for a cleaning job.
fear	tweets	The day started so wonderful, but now our kids our crying because our kitty is missing  We just got back from posting signs around.
sadness	tweets	@BigHeadAsian Ahhh...can't do this one....will be in las Vegas that weekend  #noctweetup
fear	tweets	Feeling kinda nervous when there was a virus found on the computer
fear	tweets	cant go to work tomorow. still sick  grrr its anoying me now!x
fear	tweets	@yummy411 @Cocoabebe I know, right? I guess the oldest doesn't hold rank on field trips anymore.
fear	tweets	@colinmoge  the one day I need to work
sadness	tweets	@wersching and I have to wait till January. Life is not fair!
fear	tweets	@edincoat Oh no  I hope you reach him!
sadness	tweets	already missing my biddy bops  home at mom's for the night watching my little bro and getting some rest for my birthday party tomorrow :-D
fear	tweets	This weekend is completely different from last weekend.
sadness	tweets	@materialistic i know i suck.  my data plan is weak sauce.
fear	tweets	@Savfortomorrow Si, no bueno  I guess I just don't entertain him :/
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus my cousin is in jail for shoplifting and drugs she is 16! im upset please help me feel better
fear	tweets	Sending angry vibes to the individual in a blue vehicle who hit my car in the QFC parking lot on Broad and failed to leave a note
fear	tweets	@justeezy  woh won at least you aren't in the NYC situation
fear	tweets	@StaceBDU but my bday is JUNE 19.. this is wack... and ihavent seen any promotions for my bday party  someone better finagle this asap!
sadness	tweets	@irize yea yea  im about to torture myself by doing a stanky leg marathon..ima do the dance for hrs til I can't no mo
fear	tweets	oh man, just seen the BGT news.. not cool. i loved greg.  that dancing weepy kid was just fucking obnoxious imo.
fear	tweets	mommy coming home from vegas tonight! going to pick her up later in islip her plane doesnt get in until 10:40. KILLME. i want my mommy
fear	tweets	@kakrisch im jealous.  im slaving away at the store and youre chilling on the boat.
sadness	tweets	@jwalsh Damnit all. That sucks.  You were one of the ones I thought I'd drag back lol
fear	tweets	@ddlovato  my cousin is in jail for shoplifting and drugs she is 16! im upset please help me feel better
sadness	tweets	@aaronob My music teacher either expired or forgot about my lesson, leaving me outside waiting for my ride to pick me up for 1 hour.
sadness	tweets	Well it's after 6 and i didn't get a call back  oh well
fear	tweets	@mikeziemer you traitor  whiskey and coke is my aphrodisiac
sadness	tweets	@renegadepr cool. looking forward. san francisco was really nice. didn't make it out to napa though  maybe next time.
fear	tweets	wish I could feel no pain (8)  but it's ok, at least they like Brazil!
fear	tweets	@glennbeck wish we could come see u on Denver  husband lost his job and can't afford it
fear	tweets	I do nothing on friday nights
fear	tweets	Jane is really sad because she probably won't get perfect on tonight's quiz without the missing article. Should've asked someone for it.
sadness	tweets	omg trying to fix pic but its not working!!!! ugh also mom wont let me sleep over sanzz!!!!!  bad day!!!!
fear	tweets	has a tummy ache.
sadness	tweets	@rdougan I wish I was! well, for the past hour I have been. But before that I was in bed. Proper migraine!
sadness	tweets	@michaelpietsch He's totally ignoring me!! How sad!  I am heartbroken
fear	tweets	@Jonasbrothers  my cousin is in jail for shoplifting and drugs she is 16! im upset please help me feel better
sadness	tweets	Got stuck in a traffic jam today, i now have one sunburned arm
sadness	tweets	@coliwilso *hugs*  still feeling poorly are you
fear	tweets	reason #123,243,342 I don't like weathermen, school program canceled due 2 rain.Show 6p-7p now 8:15p still no rain  #weathermenRneverright
fear	tweets	I have nacho chips...but no cheese.
sadness	tweets	On my way to work, I'm kinda sad
sadness	tweets	chillin on break eatin some grub. pretty burnt out had an eventful day. wanting to go to the movies with Ian, not happening though.
sadness	tweets	I missed your calls
fear	tweets	@RealKeanuReeves   People are cruel sometimes.  I can't imagine being a Star.
fear	tweets	Went for run, my sinuses are pissing me off
fear	tweets	@sandysurap Thanks. They're both so cute. Havent been home for many years so havent seen them in person
fear	tweets	@jbdance7  ya i can never watch any of them :l
sadness	tweets	waiting for sleeping pills to kick in... gonna be so tired at work tomorrow
fear	tweets	I sadly have no voice after the Food Faire and The Academic Pep Rally!! I need my voice.
sadness	tweets	Why the fuck can't I be over this ??? I feel like crying bit I realy don't want to  why is this bothering me sooooooo much !?
sadness	tweets	@survivorqueen I can't shes taken my keys to muh car.
sadness	tweets	No Rockin on the River for me, tonight...
fear	tweets	Isss boredddd, gotta be up in the morningg
fear	tweets	@JeremyBorash wow, honestly not surprising, every time they try to push that guy he gets injured
sadness	tweets	@BodyWisdomInc sorry I missed you @pcharityclassic. Saw you across the way, I was busy taking pix-abt 4:15 came to meet U-but U were gone
fear	tweets	@emerilizzie poor kid.  That sucks. Hopefully things look up for her soon. *hugs*
sadness	tweets	@dougreport just checked again and it worked!! Sorry
fear	tweets	@schambers bud light?!?!?!  up in Massachusetts and no Boston Lager?  Guess I won't catch the next flight   njoy!
fear	tweets	Im giving up on twitter. My pic is gone my background is gone..I'm hopeless when it comes to technology!!
sadness	tweets	@Kalediscope Girl *cries* I'm allergic to seafood
fear	tweets	aghh mann i missed like half wowp, nd i dont like to start watching things in the middle of the show, i forgot to record it, im maddd!
fear	tweets	@veddersgirl Will start tonight. Bored. Tired of waiting on Darkward. I am breaking up with him
fear	tweets	@kscarter I feel like I haven't talked to you in a really really long time.
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus  it wont let me vote even tho im signed in
sadness	tweets	Just got to the gym but w/no energy
fear	tweets	oh and i forgot my cell at home  thankgod for this crackberry
fear	tweets	@MaryleeFOD I am so sorry I missed your tweet  I was on a nice long chat across the border with pastel. Did you want the recipe? email?
fear	tweets	waaah.. I can't open my eyes wider! i wanna go back to sleep but i can't sleep properly..
sadness	tweets	God, why can't I be at #asylum? Really. I never get to do anything cool!
fear	tweets	FCKeditor is giving me problems! Posts just fine, but only edits in plain text! Help!
sadness	tweets	@ the San Antonio Missions game waitressing. Not a huge crowd.  Meaning a slow game.
sadness	tweets	I'd rather be at #BEATweetup.  Instead, I'm taking my cue from @vromans and shutting down. @wirechairs @annacarollo reprezent-zent!
sadness	tweets	my fab broke
fear	tweets	@ceciliaa_ What did he say about it?? Gosh! I missed the yesterday live chat.. I was at bed.. sick
fear	tweets	I'm in a traffic jam
fear	tweets	has a broken iphone
sadness	tweets	Omg, someone just left me a voicemail at work    ffs let me have a day off
fear	tweets	i'm a bum today
sadness	tweets	@ArtyTheCat oh noes I missed you again.
fear	tweets	Just got my dress for my friends wedding. Its a little tight in places. Gotta work out more
sadness	tweets	@wita  Still think it's unfair that Infamous isn't on PC. =/
fear	tweets	still feeling crangsty  but sushi for Marianne's bday (tmr) tonight! then pedicures (finally!) even so, I hate feeling like this *pouts*
fear	tweets	@selenagomez AWWWE! I live in Van, would've been so great to see you  but have a great flight!
fear	tweets	chris cornell is going pop?!  i prefer the old chris cornell.
fear	tweets	so i have like no more friends it's kinda sad
sadness	tweets	ok, twitter doesnt like me   i must be really dumb...how do i send a msg?
fear	tweets	offically in DC .....  missing my numero uno
fear	tweets	@emett55 TGIF is right...I think I broke my toe last night - on my bad foot.
sadness	tweets	Wanting to go out... apparently no ones available!
fear	tweets	Lack of sleep leads to major head ach
sadness	tweets	They burnt my zuccini
sadness	tweets	has such a freakin migraine
fear	tweets	feeling sick. headache. bored. tireddd
fear	tweets	@lindyhot oh noo.. i cant see it
fear	tweets	Our currency is dropping like nobodies business; not a good time to be going overseas  http://is.gd/JsgL
sadness	tweets	I miss vlogcandy
sadness	tweets	Why can't i find any jewellry for my dressssss?
fear	tweets	@JamaicaPanama im missin out on all the fun aww  *cryin* lol
sadness	tweets	epic fail with the chocolate fountain that got CLOGGED
fear	tweets	argh! why is the bathroom always closed when I'm late from my break and gotta pee?!!!!
fear	tweets	Vent:  No one cares
sadness	tweets	Aw i couldn't see robert before practice. That makes me sad
sadness	tweets	I MISS TUGGER AND MISTO  last night was amazing&lt;3 i was so close to them :')
fear	tweets	@efefe http://twitpic.com/64g3b - i think so ! well,u're lucky
sadness	tweets	@KSdaisy Aw...poor thing.
fear	tweets	@thecapillary i noticed that you were on the same hallway....shitty   No worries about the BBQ....I'm hoping there will be more to come!!!
sadness	tweets	I ripped my favorite pair of jeans.
sadness	tweets	i just bit my tongue.  blood everywhere!!!
fear	tweets	Time for my ritualistic Friday night depression
fear	tweets	@caraann aww I miss driving down elmwood
sadness	tweets	Burning my tongue on Won Ton soup
fear	tweets	wow its follow friday and i havent tweeted... Fail. And nobody has followed me today  dble fail. *suicide*
sadness	tweets	@momneedstherapy - So sorry Ambien got sick.  Perhaps work her ashes into the garden with a catnip plant?
sadness	tweets	Why hasn't he called. I'm being blown off yet again.
sadness	tweets	sometimes i forget my favorite porn stars are real people too. @bobbyclarkxxx made orange chicken last night and cut his finger off! sad!
sadness	tweets	cars,,,,cars....cars.....I need one. ha ha. The one I found last night, that I wanted so bad! is now sold. And not to me
fear	tweets	eye still hurts  I Think I'll go sleep now...
fear	tweets	GAH! I have the headache from hell. Reminds me what my lovely wife goes through all too often
sadness	tweets	rain rain go away.  had to cancel my pool plans! tragic.
sadness	tweets	Is sad there was no Otalia today
fear	tweets	my day is going way too fast
sadness	tweets	doesn't sound so great at all  http://is.gd/JslB #palmpre
sadness	tweets	so busy already
fear	tweets	@swiftkaratechop &quot;Jake Cologne&quot; from hollister makes every girl I hug go fucking nuts. Too bad I'm gay.
sadness	tweets	put my dog to sleep  I love you abby RIP&lt;3
sadness	tweets	@KimmyCakezZ yes ma'am u do have a pretty smile. but you also won't eat chipotle with me.
fear	tweets	So glad the days almost over... Another nite of me nd my pain pills alone at the crib lol. Ughh I wish this weekend was over alreadi!
fear	tweets	is in skwl now, and i dont really wanna study.. i saw him --&gt; J***I and makes me feel down..
fear	tweets	@cleverindie This spine thing sounds no good  back exercises are no fun, best of luck hon.
fear	tweets	@SourTwittles Hahahaha! I didn't know it said that, sheeeeittt! I don't get why I can't have a picture... bwaaaahhh
sadness	tweets	Somehow I have managed to sober up and now I remember how crap I felt pre drink
sadness	tweets	at work.. missing my miami fam @anywayz, @abigaildsouza, @mrohboy32, carolina, jonathan, @Prtyprincess, @JessDosil &amp;&amp;&amp; more
fear	tweets	@TreoBenny ha! I know..I'm very ashamed.
fear	tweets	@Gilove2dance Awww, *hugs* I wish I could help.
sadness	tweets	I had some work to do, but my wrist hurts too much to do any of it.
sadness	tweets	@HollyTheBoss lol. sorry bout today  ..did u get them?? &amp; what else R U guyz doinq cuz i have to C if im eligable [howeva itz spelled lol]
fear	tweets	Dudes nothing to doon a friday
sadness	tweets	feelin depressed ,, i miss you soo damn fcking much besties  ..i wish i wouldnt have left yt
fear	tweets	Rain on my parade of beer and fire
fear	tweets	@jmariu i couldn't eat all my nuggets  finish them for me.
fear	tweets	@Boy_Kill_Boy I is angry
fear	tweets	Is upset that he didn't get his 24 fix tonight
sadness	tweets	@Mr_Kimbalicious you can have the milk i have, i only have that here to drink  i think thats whats making me feel sick
fear	tweets	Oh how today sucks....
sadness	tweets	@NaomiER Having a bad day actually  but your cd keeps my spirits lifted
sadness	tweets	At an 80''S retro prom wishing HE was here to dance with!  I'm gonna miss his great dancing 2nite  but still having a blast &amp; a few drinks
fear	tweets	@danachs I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
fear	tweets	@djcommish @JuneBug143 Awww hey boo..  i know i miss all of them
fear	tweets	@ddlovato How hard is it 2 be running back an forth constantly? Ya kno workin all the time, havin crazy sleepin schedules? Must be hard
sadness	tweets	@prettyrach I am 100% jealous.  wish I had some
fear	tweets	is crying..because the school years over  i wont get to see my teachers!  i wont get to see johnathan.......
fear	tweets	Wow. So I hate Staples right now. Majorly. Thanks for being complete fucktards and killing our productivity
fear	tweets	Sigh only 1 problem though i need to call Stooopid LIME aka Cable and Wireless and have them reconnect my interent 2 day without net  sads
sadness	tweets	@brighit @lilypenelope @Guy_Vincent @torbengee @@Winsorandnewt i missed the party!!!!  i bought wine and everything!!!
fear	tweets	I think my phone has officially bit the dust.
fear	tweets	Sitting in the car. My ipod is about to die so Im not gonna have anything to do.
fear	tweets	@nezua i want to comment but don't understand what you're saying
sadness	tweets	There go my big plans... thanks, tonsils.
sadness	tweets	@owl311 that makes me sad...
fear	tweets	I wish I could see dramafest SO BAD.
fear	tweets	@el_juansimon God I'm bored. Wish we could've done something 2night!
fear	tweets	Making a list of SiC 2009 attendances
sadness	tweets	@samsamsammm i miss you!!  stupid work!
fear	tweets	at work.. missing my miami fam @anywayz, @abigaildsouza, @mrohboy32, carolina, @jonathan305, @Prtyprincess, @JessDosil &amp;&amp;&amp; more
fear	tweets	thinking i cant handle my life like this anymore... almost seems as if suicides the answer... unfortunately.
sadness	tweets	friday.....i have nothing to do so sad
fear	tweets	@kidkierain yeah, that does sound a bit bad man... i got fucking exam week this week
fear	tweets	is terrible at saving money..
sadness	tweets	working on diffusing that irritation but this traffic sure isn't helping  mother F! it's always real bad the days th@ i help plan stuff
sadness	tweets	@yomama8929 I go into the room for the first time in weeks and you're off cleaning
sadness	tweets	brother's back!! &amp;&amp; i found this really small dead bird on my deck  so sad, i basically cried.
sadness	tweets	Misses JP  I do not know what to do and iv given myself a headache thinking about it, just makes me want to cry
fear	tweets	Didn't expect to have a car accident, then the pain kick in 4 days later
fear	tweets	I feel like a lost puppy without my phone.
fear	tweets	@bktassava I am lost. Please help me find a good home.
sadness	tweets	off to bed was gonna read some new moon but its a little late now  night night all xxx
fear	tweets	She tells me that she feels miserable, so at least it's mutual.
fear	tweets	Ugh I don't feel well again all of a sudden
sadness	tweets	@alinachka is there anyway you could forgive me?
sadness	tweets	@uwbadgerkelly because you had chips and sale w/o me
fear	tweets	Bella doesn't love me no more
fear	tweets	I have a sore tummy
sadness	tweets	@sarah6800 I miss you already. All the sad faces you texted me were seriously gonna make me cry.
sadness	tweets	@RealRobBrydon Hi Rob, will you be coming back and doing any more shows in Wales again soon? Missed you the first time.
sadness	tweets	@mssbxny artery tomorrow. No more Hagen Daz for me
sadness	tweets	@RainbowAnne  Well, it was a nice thought while it lasted. Maybe he'll leave properly next time *crosses fingers*
sadness	tweets	@davidaldrich_wx it looks like it did in Ohio after a tornado hit.
fear	tweets	My picture won't update.
fear	tweets	Graveyard charged my card twice (one correct total, one random amt) from last night's #atltweet tweetup. Check your accounts!
sadness	tweets	@Heylushh haha me tooooo! I miss you I havnt seen you in ages
fear	tweets	forgot to renew my drivers license
sadness	tweets	was just about to try and  dl the sims 3 but realize my pc don't meet the standard requirements  i need new pc lol!!!
fear	tweets	My cats sick.
fear	tweets	I really need to invest in an elliptical machine... Running with shin splints sucks!!
fear	tweets	Alex slammed her head into the edge of the table about 30 min ago.  She's going to have a nice, blue bruise.
fear	tweets	@ Kosme -&gt; careful or you're going to be like me; updating websites and such on a Friday night
sadness	tweets	everyone has left me and gone to bed
sadness	tweets	@kickzfadayz Our boy better get it in tonight!!!! Or it's all over
sadness	tweets	i want to join drama practice today but i can't
fear	tweets	is very hungover
fear	tweets	@ltyson yay asap lol awwh I miss our friday night happy hours even luna del sea and the &quot;boy&quot; hahahaha
fear	tweets	Jesus...I'm being SLAMMED via DM's from the Papaya lobbyists.  OK. Holy crap: Mangosteen, Durian or Papaya...or cybersecurity on a stick.
sadness	tweets	@ClaireSale Poor Beta, I took him to Seattle, riding on my lap on the plane. He was happy here until our week long outage-cold did him in
fear	tweets	@bwexxx  i hope you hoes are having so much fun...not TOO much without me though lol
sadness	tweets	@Savfortomorrow I thought I was doing pretty good; I guess not. Bummer.
fear	tweets	@Nevidge20 Kennedy was re-injured at RAW on Monday. He's got s serious muscle issue in his back and a broken wrist.
fear	tweets	Took calculus exam today, I think that I did well. I messed up one derivative identity though  Well, I never miss that one again.
sadness	tweets	I miss him soooo much  not gonna see him for 2-3 months
fear	tweets	@akte a couple of YEARS? I may die without my Kateage.  *keeps fingers crossed for you tho*
fear	tweets	I lost my voice
fear	tweets	woke up early this morning  not happy bout that, headache, dizzy can't breathe, yeh im still sick
fear	tweets	*cough cough hack hack
fear	tweets	reaons not worth it; drunk for no reason, depressed about revision, nothing happened. Reason's worth it:Matt, ...after that? i dunno
sadness	tweets	@ThisStarChild aww please explain &quot;botts&quot; I am all 'fused....
sadness	tweets	@hannahxmakeup my stupid putet won't let me go to your chat
fear	tweets	@philwade unfortunatly, just about to start making my way home  but via Singapore for a gig too, so fun ain't over  just yet ;)
sadness	tweets	@wesleyadamquinn i missed the chicago show  boo me.
fear	tweets	@JoeRuiz Ahhh, I slept through the game.  I'm gonna try my best to watch tomorrow though. I hope we play Army.
sadness	tweets	@TinPanAlley Sorry bro  That's rough.
sadness	tweets	I'm sad to take off the suit b/c I know I'm not going to get to wear one again for a long time
sadness	tweets	@chopperdave12 i think im just going to wind up going Home and go to bed
sadness	tweets	@MmMmMshell I miss having u as a roommate
fear	tweets	I'm really enjoying pins and needles in my legs at 01:28 in the morning... Not
sadness	tweets	Bored and kinda lonely, my parents went up to the lake. I didn't have a friend to bring up so i knew i was bored and didn't go.
fear	tweets	@BSBVBK im trying to fix it.. it doesnt do it  and its &quot;ahi dios mio&quot; but u did good lol
fear	tweets	Plans were taking flight to go out tonight but they're now sinking in the Hudson since I have to work in he morning. Stupid bird strike.
fear	tweets	Coming to the end of a looooong day. Good new is, I got everything done! Bad news- I gotta wake up @ 4:45am tomorrow for work!
fear	tweets	I'm bored. No internet. I haven't made it downtown or to the beach yet.
fear	tweets	Im hungry and its cold
sadness	tweets	@djflykid Ooooh, boo!  We only see each other at the bar (at @titusofalltime's well) or miss each other! I'll make a pt of stopping by! ;)
fear	tweets	is working tomorrow all day so can't do anything tonight  Whats the plan for Saturday?
fear	tweets	@keeleykerrins Dear god i hope they save it.  http://www.the-impossible-project.com/
fear	tweets	hey there @larkn0298 how are you going? looking forward to weekend, sadly im workin both sat sun
fear	tweets	@ZackRabbit i chewed up a Starbucks and a Subway gift card at Christmas time, I got in big trouble. I not allowed near purse.
fear	tweets	@ahewitt Me too
sadness	tweets	@ladebelle yeah it's a double edged sword. So I guess we dead on new stories?
fear	tweets	Feels really sick. Just puked my guts out.    help, please.
fear	tweets	@Cara62442 Just read those tweets and it sounded like i was getting on at you . I swear not what I meant to do
sadness	tweets	Trying to watch Boys Before Flowers online. Streaming sucks and my wireless is crappy too
fear	tweets	@KimSherrell maybe its because my computer committed suicide this week, but your &quot;faves&quot; link wont load
fear	tweets	@refuse2bdefined nooo!! not too busy for you! EVER! SRSLY!  you are my pal! I'm not yet familiar with iphone twitter
sadness	tweets	I so want to be a part of Windows Clubhouse, but my WL Spaces blog is random, and not the place where I share Windows stuff
fear	tweets	@RealSmoothieLuv nope no love
fear	tweets	@KRITM awe I am sorry, probably true.
sadness	tweets	Why does twitter eat my DM's?  Not happy
fear	tweets	Swollen face.....again
fear	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg baby I'm in maryland I'm NOT gonna make it  BUT I will see ur sexy ass next sat in camden VIP....come early n hang!!!!!
fear	tweets	has on music at work today its so painful
fear	tweets	@socilover I wish I can see that. They have CNN here again, with no volume.
fear	tweets	feeling sick and wondering if I should get out of bed to go throw up or just go to sleep...
sadness	tweets	@BuffaloLass87 I'm so sorry  do you want me to call? If not I will be on aim in a couple of hours if you need to vent
fear	tweets	@elmoberry @ejc7 - MISS YOU TWO!!! Find it random how all form of communication slows when I'm at home   -  I MISS LE2!! xxxx
fear	tweets	chillin, wish i was with my pals in il
fear	tweets	@Ur_Obsession lol but its only gonna be 80  the water will prob be cold as heck...
fear	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg The Disney Store is not treating me to well with hours  I realy want to go on 6/13. I willdo anythig to go to the show ;-)
fear	tweets	@mommy41402 yeah i need his fricken cell number ive tried his home for months and hes too busy. i miss braddddddddd
fear	tweets	@ChasityNichole No dice...I searched it in the &quot;Help&quot; area...just a problem some people have.  It would have been hot...oh well
fear	tweets	so far I've tried to kill myself TWICE in the 15 mins I've been outside by tripping on stupid things.  I knew I should've stayed in bed.
fear	tweets	@BMatt95 ohhh. hm. I don't want to screw mine up
fear	tweets	twitter has spam!!?? oh no
fear	tweets	@katevoegele I wish you weren't going to a 19+ venue in Vancouver
fear	tweets	@funkylovin  on your ani?  sorry
fear	tweets	I have trouble with Starship troopers. They're mean to the great big pink bug.
sadness	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg - l'd come if u could, but Australia is just too far away
fear	tweets	there's nothing worse than getting a text about a dog that was abandoned in your town
fear	tweets	@TheAliMonster  FTR I &lt;3 U and miss U on the team already
sadness	tweets	@AmyMonzon booooo  my senior yearbook sucks thanks for the memories bhs -___-
fear	tweets	@ravels http://twitpic.com/67fs9 - I miss hearing you guys.  You will all be missed out here.
sadness	tweets	@trellthms what r u doing tonight bro?I wanna go out
sadness	tweets	@gimboland sorry change of plans for me   :'( revision for monday exam in a park with one of my friends
fear	tweets	Dear god I'm so sleepy, and it's only 6:30. Must be sleep deprived. I even fell asleep sitting up. *groans* I'm I really that old?
sadness	tweets	is trying to deny that she's beginning to miss him -- more and more, each and every single day that their apart  ... i need Sprite! HAHA!
fear	tweets	Little kids annoy the hell outa me by being all active and shouting and attacking me Etc.
fear	tweets	There are no appointments left for the day so they're trying to work me in. almost an hour for a stuck freaking power button FML
fear	tweets	Lol I mean hey! That's mean
fear	tweets	*sigh* another two out fly out for Papi
sadness	tweets	@mileycyrus Workin ur crazy sched. has to be tiring..its gotta  be hard being famous  but jus kno u have Bazillionz of fans supprtin u
fear	tweets	Oh god! I had to look at &quot;How to use Twitter&quot;.. how hopeless is that?!
sadness	tweets	@lbutterworth I know, twitter is depressing me tonight
fear	tweets	seriously my parents are non stop  minniapolis, newport for a week, and now this weekend in San Diego  i miss them @home
sadness	tweets	@MissKellyO  wish I could eat with you all !!!
fear	tweets	They just admitted my grandma to the hospital... Shes my only last one  please pray for her
fear	tweets	Ok, my job at walmart is a cart pusher  i hope i dont get sunburned
sadness	tweets	I dont get how to use twitterr!
fear	tweets	So lost  on my owm tryinh to find matter in the o2
sadness	tweets	@selenagomez bye selena!!! too bad i didnt get to talk to u while u were here
sadness	tweets	Just thought about my hubby being deployed n now I got the blues  I need a stiff drink but I'm breastfeeding so no booze for me :/ Ugh!!
fear	tweets	junk food and movies in a tshirt and sweats.... the only way tonight would be better is if I had someone to hang with
sadness	tweets	@gialovescece NO GHOST WHISPERER?!!  What am I going to do without J. Love?!
sadness	tweets	i hate songs and surveys  they always seem to make me cry.
fear	tweets	Wondering if twitter will be fixed for my phone any time soon...
sadness	tweets	Last full day of high school was today. I'm sad that I may never see a lot of my friends ever again!!
fear	tweets	I'm getting more and more reactions when stroking the cat.  Now I have welts on my hands from where she caught me with her claws.
fear	tweets	follow friday.. follow me coz i only have 26 followers...  (it's not 2am)
sadness	tweets	I want a burrito but I still have 30 more minutes of work
sadness	tweets	My tummy hurts...
sadness	tweets	@Teseract86 If I got paid by the hour I could retire by now  do you have xBox live? I am thinking Rock Band
sadness	tweets	i hate it when my bff is groundedd  boooooooooo
fear	tweets	@3xasif lol. just don't ever forget me
fear	tweets	shit....game starts in 30 min!!
fear	tweets	poor wavves. had a meltdown in barcelona. drummer walked out. shoes were thrown. hands in face.
fear	tweets	@LesbianCafe Sorry to hear that sweetness  have you taken anything for pain?
fear	tweets	Nooo...i forgot my calculator for physics   oh well class is allmost over :3
fear	tweets	@DonnaFirsty she fell into deep crack in the glacier  so terrible
fear	tweets	@totalgunner Ive twitpic-we him before so you might be able to find him LOL. Aw thats so sad!  ooh piranhas? Scary lol
sadness	tweets	mannnn...  why aint my music working
sadness	tweets	My dog died today. We had her for 11 years. I miss her so much.
sadness	tweets	Sometimes I wish I was a warden
sadness	tweets	I'm bored... Don't want to stay home tonight, but don't want to spend money  blah
fear	tweets	I WILL CRY!!!!!!!!    I can't believe that I lost the chat!!!
fear	tweets	I should be paying my bills and not playing on here.
fear	tweets	my hair hurts
fear	tweets	Poor Little Hollie Steel...I really did feel for her!!  #bgt
fear	tweets	@RQKidd Hey I texted you but you never responded. We stopped at a friend's &amp; ended up staying.
sadness	tweets	i just saw a baby dove fall from a tree, break its neck and die  i tried to save it and couldnt. what a cruel world
sadness	tweets	wants to go home!
sadness	tweets	@tymrichardson the movie Tym... So sad, I was crying non-stop.
sadness	tweets	@ the Eldorado house, goodbye Aliante house. *Memories made, memories fade!
fear	tweets	@eddyhendergrass that sounds like the scariest zombie dream ever.
fear	tweets	I dont like things getting confused. Seems to be happening alot lately
fear	tweets	Guys (@cotravelgirl @elaineellis @debindenver @joshclauss @pugofwar) I know! My ability to read time telling devices failed!
fear	tweets	Sorry that your tummy hurts deathbyhistory  i got a tattoo like half an hour ago!
fear	tweets	@karenhanson that plain sux. kinda like cheers goin off the air.
sadness	tweets	@Kat_KittyKat  so now im bored..untill i go out
fear	tweets	@AmberHope ME
fear	tweets	@caroldn I feel like a piece of garbage!  See: http://bbltwt.com/nqgp3
fear	tweets	soooo bored it aint funny.
sadness	tweets	Is dying my hair back to pink. I missed being a cupcake. And I miss my Sherry and Melanie
fear	tweets	i have a headache
sadness	tweets	today has me feelin' like crap
fear	tweets	thanks to the forever 21 curse that makes you spend 3 hours there everytime you go in, i couldnt go tanning today
fear	tweets	You know when your FAT when someone points it out.  ugh...what an aweful day... I feel like breaking down.
fear	tweets	ugh im crying again  writing a rant about it on tumblr.
fear	tweets	@AnastasiaEsper Aren't we though? lol He's at work now and I miss him  blah Wut cha up to?
fear	tweets	My friend ..has cancelled on me for tomorrow, Now i have nothing to do...this makes me sad...  xxxxxx
fear	tweets	sad.. Daniel is leaving Florida now.. just gave him a big hug
fear	tweets	@KyleWade05 so glad i did not say hi to last night... i dont want the flu... but sry if you really do have it
sadness	tweets	@sunmess she was performing at the lifeball in vienna this year but unfortunately i didn't get the chance to see her.
fear	tweets	@goopmop i dont want you to go to india
fear	tweets	Going out to Miranda shopping centre to spend time with the family, before going away for 2 weeks to Malaysia. Gonna miss them!
sadness	tweets	at home sick
fear	tweets	finds the hardest thing about being a Christian is to put God as first in his life.  I need help..
fear	tweets	i'm going to kill myself T_T . i wasted hundreds of download and realised i got the wrong one
fear	tweets	I am sad that my kids were ungrateful today
sadness	tweets	@bgoldy and sitting in traffic trying to escape campus is feeling just as hellish
sadness	tweets	my guinea pig died today
sadness	tweets	i got over the crush issue but now tomorrow my friend is going to india for the whole summer  im back to being sad.
sadness	tweets	I cried...
fear	tweets	feel dpressed
sadness	tweets	@babymakes7 no.  I lost the link you sent when I had to pull my battery.
fear	tweets	@Hameed_Hemmat she's mad coz she purposely let you step on her foot, n thought you would give her a kiss to compensate, but you didn't
sadness	tweets	my stomach hurts
sadness	tweets	is Jay Leno's last show tonight
sadness	tweets	i've become one of those pathetic girls that feel lonely without their boyfriends hahaha i miss josey already!!
fear	tweets	@yoyonb87 yep, so I damn it.
fear	tweets	i miss my brother.  12 more days till he gets bac to tennessee. he said he was singing &quot;find my way bac to tennessee&quot; today. haha.
fear	tweets	@Laurie_J We're in the same boat.
sadness	tweets	@TheNewBradie my tvs not working  i wanna watch vhits :'(
fear	tweets	@cityofedmonton - the service on the west end of #yeg is a joke after 6pm. And the 2 and 150 been late doesn't help.  #yegtransit #fail
sadness	tweets	sadd..  last night in fl.. going back to AR tomorrow
fear	tweets	@coachreggie  She doesn't need a darn (watching my language) thing but that never stops her  &amp;   I mapped u. U live in the boonies :-o
fear	tweets	Awwww poor biggie...he puked on me in the car. Even though I had the air conditioning on FULL blast...I think it was the heat  He' ok now
sadness	tweets	I'm a sad panda, hulu doesn't have the elephant show   no Skinnamarinkydinkydink sing alongs for me.
sadness	tweets	Unfortunately these heffas decided to take an impromptu mall trip without telling me
sadness	tweets	@MomofCandE Miss you
sadness	tweets	@suncito hi there! got off comp. early last nite.  saw u weren't feeling well..   hope u r better!!
fear	tweets	Jus sittn here thinkin....wow yo my boy is really gone! Smh yo! Its bout to be 3 weeks on Sunday!  R.I.P VON
fear	tweets	Having a bad day/week
fear	tweets	@justdaydreams Lol rite! I'm scared now  lol
sadness	tweets	Literally laid in bed all day. Major headache
fear	tweets	Circus was fun - I don't have any hope of getting out of the parking lot - haven't moved in 10 min
fear	tweets	why did I get airbrushed nude, if soon as i put my dress on it messed it up a little...eerrrr
sadness	tweets	Missing nathan and the bccg already. And my best friends that tried to visit me   Heading back tomorrow afternoon.
sadness	tweets	I miss nicc today.
fear	tweets	re-dyed the hair, early start tomorrow heading down to londons clothes show, great place to be when i feel fat.   bright side = motivation
sadness	tweets	plus.. janessa hurt my feelings
fear	tweets	@melissa_hope why?
sadness	tweets	@sfitzpatrick924 bahah sadly I am not
fear	tweets	Why must Jay Leno leave his own show
fear	tweets	Justin is SO warm! It makes me worry when they have a high fever and I go to sleep.
sadness	tweets	@mlpband my heart just broke a little ... and by a little i mean a lot
fear	tweets	@Marcina @bifnaked bif doesn't come down far enough south for me
fear	tweets	@dustbunniesss i dont have a bank. i cash my shit at tom thumb. i've had four bank accounts--and they've all gone negative
fear	tweets	yay! boxing!! although after the boxing, sparring &amp; eating, have to spend the rest of the evening troubleshooting java code for hw.
fear	tweets	Actually, I think I'll be more upset if I lost my data for Cake Mania 3. I was pretty far into the game
fear	tweets	wow i'm soo hungover
sadness	tweets	@karshka Hey.  I won't be coming to town this weekend, because I don't have a day off until next friday.
sadness	tweets	misses home on the farm
fear	tweets	@zarlana I took my ring out...
fear	tweets	@rWilliamr I'm tryin not the be boring today . . . I just can't seem to come up with thing to say
sadness	tweets	down side = i have a seat by myself  loner. please be a starbucks there.
fear	tweets	@iDJExplicit What's wrong?
sadness	tweets	Going to the dirt track races w Aaron. Having a really good hair day! wish I could wear makeup though
sadness	tweets	@LeslieIN  so what was said??  I'm so bummed I missed it!.  *sigh* I want to go to california
fear	tweets	Stupid bipolar weather ruined my day off
fear	tweets	Just got a shot on my arm. Eww.
fear	tweets	I'm so sorry Drace  this sucks so bad
fear	tweets	@tobefreeisme I would be scratching ma head toooo
fear	tweets	Did some REAL window shopping and i found so many things i want that just happen to be over a hundred dollars.
fear	tweets	It's raining and I'm outside without an umbrella.
sadness	tweets	Trying out a new Twitter client, can't seem to get a new theme applied to DestroyTwitter
sadness	tweets	Its so windy and raining harder then the day before today   bye bye if the power gos out
fear	tweets	I still sound like a man!
sadness	tweets	@iAquarian I heart Mela so so much cept last time I went they booked us in on the Saturday instead of the Friday and wouldn't feed us
fear	tweets	@writingforlife You know I am so ashamed. I did not watch a single episode of the new GH season.  I kept falling asleep, so I gave up.
fear	tweets	So I just failed my second year of med school. I don't know what to do or say.
fear	tweets	@richardAmills ugh im not a vip  im always vippppppp
fear	tweets	CHILLAXIN AT WORK...MAN I SCREWED UP
fear	tweets	Guys my phone is dying!!!
fear	tweets	But then again I think I'm the only who pays attention to this type of thing, bout to hit this bush and pretend its purple.....
sadness	tweets	Leaving for Atlanta in the morning to catch JoCo and Pa &amp; St!!! I'm excited! Missed P&amp;S at D*Con last year.  That made me a sad owl.
fear	tweets	@DentonPolice http://twitpic.com/5wb0k - what a mess. we're missing the bra strap.
fear	tweets	@BrineandBastard What??  Nooooooooo      There goes my weekend!
sadness	tweets	@travistubbs I'm already a fan of hulu. Too bad there's not a bigger Internet selection on netflix.  I thought that would be easier
fear	tweets	@MelissaPan ah the Computer's not in my room  on BBerry right now, and Youtube charges D: !! Heyy, how about you, aren't you tired XD?
fear	tweets	Well, looks like it is going to be another night without my snuggle bug  Missing my Big Girl.
fear	tweets	Wow no one loves me  @stuntmann88
fear	tweets	Whats is up with me! I am spilling everything
fear	tweets	ughh...i dont feel good
sadness	tweets	@CChiron - Well (as you can see) I've been blah blah blahing so much...yep. I forgot. I'm sorry   But...I'm here!
sadness	tweets	at hannah montana set.... im missing tennessee ALOT today
sadness	tweets	@ChariceManiacs  me too! i don't know why every time i listen to it i start to cry!
fear	tweets	mmm mmm mmm! tss tsss tss. LOL, having way too much fun being bored.  i miss him
fear	tweets	@nodirectionhome biglots by my house has jesus &amp; virgin mary rings in one of those machines i rocked one for a while til that shit broke
fear	tweets	argh! my embouchure= FAIL! makes me sad
fear	tweets	@itsjenwilliams Im at work!
fear	tweets	Bible study cancelled   Study partner started new job with horrible hrs - Pls pray for her that hrs improve and she knows God's  provision
sadness	tweets	whats wrong with my flickr  http://www.flickr.com/photos/frenchtoastcake/ my quilt top photo only shows when you click on it! SAD STORY!!!
fear	tweets	House hunting for next year= No FUN!
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus aww homesick  i feel you! im homesick for my 2nd home, campp
fear	tweets	hmm, do not feel like writing monthly reports tonight!  probably should get started though...
fear	tweets	@ThisStarChild  hope yer ok hunny
fear	tweets	Still no pic, very sad
fear	tweets	i want to see ephraim zenh tomorrow! a lot. but can i find a sitter? wtf? why does everyone have plans? it's only saturday night...sigh.
sadness	tweets	Friday Night Magic last night, I lost so bad  I suck at draft
fear	tweets	just took my shirt off and my back is COVERED in blisters  http://bit.ly/vUiXG
fear	tweets	going to bed its late and I have headache
fear	tweets	@sarahbellafina I'll try but silly silly tweetdeck being mean to me again
sadness	tweets	is feeling very sick
sadness	tweets	@PaulaAbdul  why canceled your performance on Letterman? i'm So sad because it is less an option for you.
sadness	tweets	Out for an evening on the town with jeremy. Sad Carrie can't come
fear	tweets	@bignupehen i would but i have nowhere to go and no one to go with
fear	tweets	Rachel and chelsey left me and jenny stole my bike.  that makes me muy triste!
sadness	tweets	Listing to a sad song  so i am sad too
fear	tweets	Still raining here in The Bay...I forget what sunshine looks like !
sadness	tweets	@mommy41402. I was like &quot;whyyyyy?!&quot;
fear	tweets	Watchin Grease 2 and waiting for 9 to hurry up and come so I can talk to my girl. Ugh..... it seems so far away...
sadness	tweets	@OnyXx_B all the shows are sold out  so I have to wait til tomorrow or sunday...
fear	tweets	@alow8111 went to wingstop without me
fear	tweets	@InNoSenseLost I know. But it won't be the same
sadness	tweets	theres nothing worse than working on a friday night and having to wake up at 6 am on a saturday. I want my babe
fear	tweets	could be getting sacked soon not good
sadness	tweets	this is what i think about the world @mileycyrus at hannah montana set.... im missing tennessee ALOT today
fear	tweets	Just remembered I still have a summer project to do.  IT NEVER ENDS!!!!!
fear	tweets	i know i have lots of comments to return but i have been really busy  i'll get round to it guys, sorry
fear	tweets	Nuggets game with everyoneeeee except @almedina4.
sadness	tweets	Josie's out of surgery. She's now officially unable to procreate. And She's way out of it... Poor medicated baby
sadness	tweets	i know i told him i didnt want him to stay home with me but i lied, i really did want him to stay home with me
fear	tweets	I really wish i would hear from josh
sadness	tweets	@shanisfearless gaah rain for tomorrow
sadness	tweets	All alone at home.....
fear	tweets	Saturday will be the worst Saturday I've had in ages
sadness	tweets	Riley had an alphabet fashion show today and I forgot my camera.  It was so cute!
fear	tweets	@beadqueen That doesn't sound fun
fear	tweets	Is about to see Adriana off for a month
fear	tweets	Bummer... Might not make it to the sunday show, hopefully some sun will shine on this cloudy day
fear	tweets	@teleject Grrrrrrrr................
fear	tweets	Is not going to service tonight due to the fact that i've yet to find a dress for prom tomorrow. Ugh
fear	tweets	at hannah montana set.... im missing tennessee ALOT today
fear	tweets	@alydenisof Maybe someone is trying to hack you
fear	tweets	@Media_Molecule play my shitty levels :-D I got a bit too ambitious on one and broke the thermometer  so it only got half done!
fear	tweets	Just found out a friend and his son fell down a 25ft shaft onto concrete today. They are alive at least. Don't know much else.
sadness	tweets	#myweakness too loving ...i always let negative people into my life
fear	tweets	@baba_booey it doesn't make up for the pitch
fear	tweets	wants New Moon.  AHH Im going crazy.
fear	tweets	@FlyGyrl1 I been following.... LOL.. just dont be paying attention to little ol Mylan
sadness	tweets	@LaurenLovesJB You can't.  My Grandma will probably be on the phone. So get on AIM!
fear	tweets	@TheComputerNerd so haven't seen any videos the last few days  hope everything is ok...
sadness	tweets	I'm starving!! This diet is killing me but I can't eat after 8pm
fear	tweets	@tomasgomez i miss you too
sadness	tweets	@mikekang That is super sad   How is Bart etc holding up?
sadness	tweets	Home lost the baseball game by 1 friggin' point!  Now I'm gonna scrap.
fear	tweets	i dont want the seniors to leave
sadness	tweets	lonely
sadness	tweets	such a terrible day  only six now...
fear	tweets	@SarahBawcum my mom wants to lay. We'll be there later. Probably a little after 10. And @AyyMedlin I'm sorry you're sick
fear	tweets	Theres a fricken prisnor trans outside r hotel!  3/10 so far
sadness	tweets	@ProctorsArm at least posada had a good ab
fear	tweets	@xoxoJennxoxox i did a couple hours ago...ive got sun burn and its really uncomfortable
fear	tweets	can i have some followers :' ( ... i'm so sad...    NOW THAT I'M LOSING HOPE -pressure
fear	tweets	@katevoegele Why aren't you coming to Montreal?
fear	tweets	I have test tomorrow but i dont study, then i go very bad
sadness	tweets	They took my property
fear	tweets	Im so down! The AC in my house just broke
sadness	tweets	Life sucks if ur not having fun.
fear	tweets	@emperorliu my dick feels smaller when i look at you
fear	tweets	Can't find any pictures  !!!
sadness	tweets	@SashaBoucher omg! i know, and it ruins my weekend!  suree, if you want too.
fear	tweets	not in the mood crazii crazii highly upset now with everything &amp; everybody
sadness	tweets	Gossip Fluffodile here. The latest? Mad night with Teg, Jack, Lou, Tess and Frey. Had a gender war. But I was v. sad for a friend also
fear	tweets	@Holls77 haha I tried covering it with make up.. It doesn't work  lol so wearing a scarf is the way to go.
fear	tweets	my PC just died... again. now i have to find a firewire to save all those photos i havent backed up to the mac yet
sadness	tweets	@Bookfoolery they used to have a Book Expo in Canada (Toronto) but the cancelled it this year  #BEAtwittyparty #BEAtwittyparty
fear	tweets	@Greek4Honeybee oh no...where did your sunshine go?    *hands you a few rays of light...will this help a bit?*   ******hugs******
fear	tweets	http://tinyurl.com/ateltl &lt;-- Rocksteady pt II
fear	tweets	not goin tto tafe
fear	tweets	Waiting for an email that will probably never arrive. ED later, Consti study after then hopeless bumming.
fear	tweets	@chaoscartel That is annoying. What gear is it? I'll take it off your hands
fear	tweets	I just want this semester to be over! Only a week and a half then it's moving time!
fear	tweets	@JRHIGHTOWER  you told me u would be there...lol! Hmmmm where were u.....
sadness	tweets	@shaundiviney u no there was no point pointing it out yesterday and ppl had 2 wait til midnight .... they were kinda pissed
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4j8us - It is interesting that VS2003 generates a setup script for uninstall.
fear	tweets	@RealBillBailey Morning! Are u back in blighty Bill? Hope u had a lovely time away
sadness	tweets	@DavidArchie want to hear something funny? I'm yours is on the radio right now!
fear	tweets	I am up and feeling pretty damn gud! I dont even have a hangover what a nice feeling
fear	tweets	Drinkin' Chai tea and not sleeping.. and checkin' out some cool peeps
fear	tweets	@KatiexCobraYo awww boo! I fucking lovee doing all the girly thingss
fear	tweets	@ifixitlive Hey never realized that you also get a Twitter account.  Your guides are truly many times a lifesaver to me.
fear	tweets	@bebeisis  thanks bebeisis that is right is your name by any chanve elisabeth???
fear	tweets	@justinchuan Awww!  I was thinking about you lot up there!  Glad you enjoyed it.
sadness	tweets	I was crying all of Tuesday cos I find out! ;( .... Economics is offically my crying subject lol
fear	tweets	@YaaaaZ so don't bother urself
fear	tweets	@BroncMurphy  I agree people should be able to cohabitate with whomever they choose
fear	tweets	@Jocey17 ITS A BANK HOLIDAY STUPID!! wait, they don't have bank holidays in America... Okay keep on celebreting
fear	tweets	@michael611 would you settle for a 76 Mustang II Ghia? ...nope... probably would not be the same
fear	tweets	@thatglamchick ok.... tx  it's so worth the wait! lol...***
fear	tweets	@urbansmiler Is it possible to a have phobia of phobias? Afraid to look at list.
fear	tweets	@xxm0rgann aww morgan, i wish i could have realized that a while ago instead of putting myself through it.. your strong and i love you&lt;3
sadness	tweets	The dj's and partypeople were great again at CC. Kicking  Next one June 7
sadness	tweets	@allankent @andywalton oo, oo, I must compete... let me login to my work email to see if I can top that
fear	tweets	@MsSdot23 and thats why your azz lost hater lol  love you
sadness	tweets	@RaspberryHatter  aw. that sounds amazing  But I think I have work. Thank you for inviting me though
sadness	tweets	Sigh. I'm getting off the computer now to do even MORE homework... Bye
sadness	tweets	in school, wants to read Eclipse, 200-and-some-60 pages read
fear	tweets	Waiting on laundry to finish so I can go HOME. Think I'll do my nails while I wait
sadness	tweets	Morning all - woken by neighbour's kids screaming in the garden before 8am so not in a very benevolent mood...  you have been warned!
sadness	tweets	@LarryBenet Per Taylor Dayne conversation.  It's official I am now jealous of you.
fear	tweets	Fancy is a 187 hun got u doin things u aint never done
fear	tweets	Have lots 2do as usual! laundry, thanking God, cleaning house, praising God, cutting the hedge and thanking and praising God some more!
sadness	tweets	@neo_kryptik the usual... applications, checking statuses, reading stuff that's ... wel... not arbit  etc
sadness	tweets	@Kayleigh_Stack i wish i could go to both but i don't think i'll be allowed :p either way with two shows going your bound to get a ticket
fear	tweets	the era of the word - 'UN' (not united nations lar) is coming on fast - Unconference, Unreason, ... better get those domains !
fear	tweets	@mybellavita just clicked on your bio. You're in Cantazaro!? Have been to Italy several times. But never Calabria!
fear	tweets	@creampuffs_star v. good. i thought you were registered na?
fear	tweets	I should sleep. I've got like 5-6 hours to sleep before work. Then I've got Tuesday- Thursday off... sweet
sadness	tweets	@geewhy  You're just jealous!  Guess you'll be walking around the office tomorrow in your Malo!
fear	tweets	@ainzneal LOL  I'm the night owl queen - why you up?
sadness	tweets	Waking up with Star Wars End Title Song in my had is sorta awesome .. and also kinda creepy
fear	tweets	@daisytalk yeah, I had a suspicion about that!! I think I'm going to come home and want to spend a ton of money on tools!
sadness	tweets	i get so sucked in to true life, and that steve-o documentary was intense, i love that shit, it's nice to see people get their lives back
fear	tweets	i'm still in bed and on the laptop ...yep borin !!!
fear	tweets	@snedwan Mooooooooornin'  How are you? Are your legs ok?
sadness	tweets	Hangin out and drinkin beers with @muffclassic ..dude brought me a new pair of purple kicks.. I'm gonna wear them on the Act III cover..
fear	tweets	@Meghaaa lol. sounds like don't call me babe  have done that too !! have you thought that over ?
fear	tweets	Realizing that I don't have school today... or tomorrow... or for the next few months.  I really need to get on those job applications!
fear	tweets	@ShalG  aaah k..am like a fan incarnated,so kinda like a mutant. till date, Ghalib has never *yet* left my questions unanswered
fear	tweets	YES! Im down to 50% full on my dvr  i was at 98% like 3 days ago... lol I swear if I didnt have a dvr I would never watch tv
fear	tweets	making mashed potatoes, and vegies to go with @JoelyRighteous's t-bone steak for when he gets home
fear	tweets	right guys i have to go
fear	tweets	@monnie Not really, injured so can't do much exercise. The KG's are coming on already. Also still looking to rent some place!!  Fun times!
fear	tweets	@maxiec Hope the train remembers the way - they can go a bit loopy on bank holidays
fear	tweets	@taaaschi It's driving you insane? Really? It's Sterling Knight playing Chad Dylan Cooper on Sonny With A Chance
fear	tweets	Seen the doctor today. Everything was fine! Might go for ultrasound scan just as a precaution
fear	tweets	Bruno arghhhh i cant wait
sadness	tweets	@katrin_l unfortunately not.my work ties me down 4 the whole summer.but if there's a eu-tour this fall,I'll be there!  I want a rebound
fear	tweets	based on the similarity between &quot;May the 4th be with you&quot; and &quot;May the force be with you&quot; today it's the &quot;Star Wars Day&quot;
fear	tweets	@ryanodonnell Can't you guys do something on CO-OP about Grim Fandango? Don't you wanna see it on XBLA/PSN? Call Tony Plana!  Call Tim!!
fear	tweets	@AgesTheGreat tell him ill beat him up if he doesnt share
fear	tweets	@coliwilso  not much blipping lately, but i'll get onto that for you.
fear	tweets	What a great day! Time with some family, an amazing voice studio party at my prof's home, and a finance study date with @allyson_marie!
sadness	tweets	@beltranm hello  I'm up late playing on the internet. I love you!
fear	tweets	Hey dudes, 4AM. Please check out my blog at http://stevencohmer.blogspot.com and my youtube channel http://youtube.com/stevencohmer
fear	tweets	@atlteabagged ur not blind  i was just browsing &amp; saw ur tweet &amp; figured i could answer ur query plus i wanted to know too
fear	tweets	@Broooooke_ omg and you never would believe what we did. ahaha, i loved it. but it felt like a movie, but REAL!!
fear	tweets	LOL! Made a huge mess of my school shirt, was using charcoal sticks in 2D art
fear	tweets	@shadiya I hope you were feeling better today!
fear	tweets	@Aquilaquail Lol - I could have written that - would be good to have 2 Mondays this week, then I might catch up x
fear	tweets	@clarissa61190 and if you want to leaveeeee I can guranteee, you won't find nobody, else like meeee
fear	tweets	night night dollies  you are al so amazing
fear	tweets	@mmitchelldaviss THAT WAS SICK! i was like 'oh no, she's gonna hit the kid.' which is probably the usual response. i am oh so original
fear	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg so wish I was there with ya, but at 6:48am Belgian time I was sleeping...time diff sucks. Take me there!
fear	tweets	@beccaRAR I like to support my friends  It's sad that I'm your only friend though
fear	tweets	@Free2b_you Ah! Haha that's exciting. If I ever come to Australia we are definitely gonna have a movie night, FYI
fear	tweets	@langleyjoel @jenn_langley Hi guys! Guess who has Twitter on her phone now? Me!
fear	tweets	i am! lol its just i got used 2 talkin 2 ya..!
fear	tweets	trying to figure it out
fear	tweets	@ work. Reachable on my mobile...
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4j9eo this is  how it looks at nights
fear	tweets	@jaybranch  Hey thats good, my Daughter's still asleep and Son is drawing, better feed him v soon
fear	tweets	@WollemiPine probably because it's getting chilly here
sadness	tweets	@AKAVirtualPA Everything and Nothing Hmmmmmmm
fear	tweets	must be time to go home - yes indeedy
sadness	tweets	Storm system that looked to bring us rain today is going to miss us
sadness	tweets	@kirbis007 i trusted matt with my life in that picture. funnnn night though
fear	tweets	@b_club wished I could have been there last night. Sounds like it was rocking! Can't wait to see pix or vids
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4j9fb - I really love this picture!
fear	tweets	@LILELLAY i am! lol its just i got used 2 talkin 2 ya..!
sadness	tweets	@NileyLover09 well i`m a little bit sick but i`m fine
fear	tweets	@Samproof Black Russians makes me think of a &quot;white russian&quot; and this movie quotation: &quot;that rug really tied the room together.&quot;
fear	tweets	They don't know that I like him cause I've never ask them bout him.oh well I guess your right. I feel abit better now
sadness	tweets	says everyone was busy  http://plurk.com/p/rou4v
fear	tweets	@xthemusic did you drink too much? the best cure is a fry up
fear	tweets	@hellivina you work really hard so, sometimes you need a break, haha.  so, yeah...just let me know if you need help in anythin'.
sadness	tweets	Eminem 3AM ... Freaking Awsome!!! ... Im Going Back Too... Seams Like Something big is inside me... and no...is not a Alien
fear	tweets	@daxxbondoc thanks Daxx you too!  God Bless you brother!
fear	tweets	@MissxMarisa Borat is just so damn quotable.   ++ do you want the link to it?
sadness	tweets	@emmyrossum ah  Hate it when that happens! The Race to Erase MS is this week. Are you going?
sadness	tweets	@hot30 can you please have a short stakc competition
sadness	tweets	THiNKiNG 0f HiM  &lt;3
fear	tweets	@rhettroberts sexxxxxxxy  I had a silly weekend with my bff =P Fun times! Haha
fear	tweets	is sitting in her nan's bathroom dying her hair for the x factor auditions tomorrow
fear	tweets	@kyleandjackieo or, Green Day: boulevard of broken dream, Hinder: lips of an angel, Howie Day: collide - that was such a nice song
fear	tweets	ITO EN Tea Apple IS DELICIOUS!!!!!!!!!! (looks like I need to go to Don Quihote to buy more!!) goodnight
fear	tweets	Been invited to join a group in Second Life called &quot;Ballistic Autistics&quot;.  Cute name.
fear	tweets	@CarlosPoulet Are you a night owl or what? Always on here as the same time as myself  Enjoy your scifi show.
fear	tweets	@SchoolBoyQ L0l uhm; you need to just wife up mary jane cuz that's all you talk about!
fear	tweets	think he caught swine flu, cant do test tmorow. sorry school
sadness	tweets	: I love camp fires  I just wish the kids would try a bit harder to sing along
fear	tweets	nothing right now to do
fear	tweets	Wow... I was tricked into the #hoppusday hype today....
fear	tweets	gonna get a tan. i am so white
fear	tweets	@kkkrista  anytime..  Why ya gonna be up so late?
sadness	tweets	it's raining here  i'm stuck inside working today so i'd probably be peed off if it was sunny outside, i'm now ok with the rain
fear	tweets	heading out to dinner in a minute - cant wait to have food.
fear	tweets	@lyssiecc prettty goooooooood   going to daaaaaancing in a mo and havnt studied much for maths :|
sadness	tweets	@ChageAUS fiscally responsible is fiscally over rated
fear	tweets	In 24hrs time I will be at uni waiting to start my 1st exam, scary. I am working hard this morning though, and feeling ok about it atm
fear	tweets	@Robviktum Warm and muggy after Tuesday possible t-storms, but not as widespread, possibly severe too
fear	tweets	She doesn't believe spending many (many) thousands on a perfect wedding makes a happy couple.....A happy couple makes a perfect wedding
fear	tweets	@LisaHartwell What up Lisa, sorta quiet... I'm USA, so gonna crash soon.
fear	tweets	@stephaniehealy Past experiences of being a redhead (eg. discrimination) or even just general info bout gingers in society! It all helps
fear	tweets	@Icethevillain DAMMIT! lets have a private session
fear	tweets	omg i just slept like 18hrs in the last 22hrs...  i think i'm dying or something   reminds me of catcher
sadness	tweets	Oh what a beautiful morning and brekky in bed
fear	tweets	@Brandonhobelman i hope everything works out for you at school  keep me updated and have a good day!
sadness	tweets	i'm bored @freakinspecial: hope your wlan will go today!
fear	tweets	- arrggh kids that won't settle....need some Kava for Liam, that'll sort 'em...
fear	tweets	@Asfaq dude, saw your Twitter profile after a long time - love the background. way way cool!
fear	tweets	3 hours @FrazzleYeah oh my. Is it shorts weather do you know. I'd do my usual hanging out my window but the neighbours are out.
fear	tweets	converting the Armin Only - Imagine concert for my iPhone... fun fun
fear	tweets	@janeyha I'm stuck with BOO!!!! Jeeeez shoot me now
fear	tweets	@sonwright I'm an iPhone owner, so I don't really have a choice on which media player I use. FYI Apple makes terrible Windows software
fear	tweets	@nicobyrne we miss you in SE Asia. Come visit us when you have time.
fear	tweets	X-Men:Wolverine was hot! I say go watch it
sadness	tweets	Aw I wish I was in Ireland  @neilhimself
fear	tweets	@papelpicado And a good morning to you!  Up early with a bad conscience, trying to make up for taking a day off yesterday, are we? :p
fear	tweets	@mommymuse Thanks for the hint.  http://tinyurl.com/chtx7e.
sadness	tweets	@JonathanRKnight without ur tweets i feel lost hit me with something
fear	tweets	@1mgoldstars morning  about to tackle armhole prob - may have a solution not involving tape, will update you!
sadness	tweets	The tree-lined avenue,begins to fade from view,drowning past regrets, in tea and cigarettes,but I cant seem to forget,when you came along
fear	tweets	I know @Sadie_marie. It text me.
sadness	tweets	@orangeflowers  I've run out of earl grey, so having lemon tea instead, then whb for me too
fear	tweets	blame it on the goose gotcha feelin loose, blame it on the tron gotcha in the zone;; michelle...this is your fault. lol.
fear	tweets	,,,checked del's new blogsite!!! YAHOO!!! im just excited to what it will bring  go del!
fear	tweets	@mintea Good idea! I'll have to remove all the old receipts, tissue paper and other nonsense before I can take a pic
fear	tweets	At the uni just learned I only had one class today. About to go home
fear	tweets	I alreay feel the hang over. Soooo worth it
fear	tweets	Spent the last 2 years largely ambivalent about s/w dev practices. Can feel care factor returning. Look out!
fear	tweets	@kekeinaction LOVE your show  !
fear	tweets	i really need to earn money... so that i can watch the PCD concert
fear	tweets	@BoltClock Hmm, I will hear more.
fear	tweets	my birthday chicken  http://bit.ly/whbuv
sadness	tweets	@natalietran I don't like the term &quot;partner&quot; when it comes to relationships. It's too business like so that's my ugly word of the day
fear	tweets	@ebruchez Feels good?  Now the hardest part will be to keep it empty every day. Or at least several times a week.
sadness	tweets	@nitadarling I see...
fear	tweets	@mooddisorders what are you? flavor of the day?
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4ja12 - we were bored
fear	tweets	Of back off other peoples he can only have one stalker
sadness	tweets	Coffee didn't turn out good tiday but excellent!
sadness	tweets	@kkkrista only if we can cuddle afterwards. I like to cuddle after turning tricks on van buren
fear	tweets	I'm getting 'A Nervous Tic Motion of The Head (To The Left)'  when thinking about tonight
fear	tweets	@danhitmusic whats the next movie review going to be? You're like wossy of brum. Just more controversial
fear	tweets	studying for my exam tomorrow @ 2 &amp; packin up!
fear	tweets	@DavidArchie the script are amaaazing! Rusty halo and i'm yours are my favourites
fear	tweets	better finish off an order for this little guy first tho   http://tinyurl.com/cltln9 Time to go   Cheerio an Drasda!
sadness	tweets	just watched slumdog millionaire  its soo goood i love it :] but its sad!
fear	tweets	LOL!!  I'm glad I've seen the original trailer or that wouldn't have made sense     Someone certainly went to a lot... http://bit.ly/A0pyr
fear	tweets	@lhanni Welcome to Twitter... It's about time!
fear	tweets	@sevitzdotcom 'auto-resolve' is that a Geek/tech answer to most questions??
fear	tweets	@jdpeterson I say the same about poems. When you are ready to write, &quot;nothing else matters&quot; as a well known song tells us
fear	tweets	@tommcfly what did the times say? and thank you
sadness	tweets	@jenkellytisdale  good luck  haha i loved your character in the bring it on: in it to win it  movie
sadness	tweets	It's @andremichelle s (mr. tonematrix) birthday today. Poor guy is ill at home. Perhaps a 'hi' from the twittersphere would do some good
fear	tweets	@iantalbot Writing or making sense ?
fear	tweets	@jordanknight TINK! (whatever the f**k it means!!) from your JKUK girls! Show us some love! ;)  xx
fear	tweets	@charmainehan SEND ME THAT PHOTO MAN  ily favourite
sadness	tweets	@JonathanRKnight G'night Jonathan! I tried to stay up, I really did. I can't wait till ur in my timezone! Will be so much easier then!
sadness	tweets	Plans for today, cleaning, washing clothes &amp; cooking a Pork Dinner! Weather here is bit dull.  Hoorah for Bank Hols though
fear	tweets	@lu_lu Just one part of a very odd trip. You travel for 3 months you see some weirdness. Loved Perth though
fear	tweets	@prateekgupta yeah.. gives me something useless to crib abt
fear	tweets	Thank you for the follow @christinelu!  Looking forward to your tweets...
fear	tweets	Quiet day at work 2day.Just had dinner. Whats doin out there?
sadness	tweets	is up and ready
fear	tweets	Cool. Cant wait for dustbin baby
fear	tweets	Wee are going to the movies tonight to see Wolverine
fear	tweets	@jenniclarephoto Sometimes (although I usually go willingly  ) Don't know about the Churnet Valley event though.
sadness	tweets	@DesignerDepot thanks for adding, no befriending, no, uh oh never mind, Thanks!
sadness	tweets	@puppaz that really sucks I feel bad for you at least I woke up at eight.
fear	tweets	@mitchschroeder Omedetou!! That's truly exciting, but expected, news! Decisions decisions  Please let me know as soon as you 'know'?
fear	tweets	@SimonFilmer Alough I will hold you to your word now for when I need rain
fear	tweets	@endsiny No worries doll, its what Im here for! I luvs you! Tomorrow is a brand new day!  *Hugs*
fear	tweets	@tommcfly could you post a link to the internet version of the times so that I can read it pllleeeaaassseeeeee!!!!
fear	tweets	@Medros I'll try my best to be there!
fear	tweets	why i chose iphone   http://tr.im/kpaE
fear	tweets	HMV opens in half an our...better go get ready
sadness	tweets	@DestriDoll sorry I didn't message you yet... I couldn't get my thoughts straight. But tomorrow I'll try  goodnight
sadness	tweets	drinking cordial  yes im bored
sadness	tweets	@sharlynnx aww thank you  so is yours xx
fear	tweets	@UncleCreepy You can get into Canada, but I can't?  WTF!!!   (Seriously, I'm not allowed to cross the border!)
fear	tweets	Ustream replay for Control Your Rankings.  http://www.controlyourrankings.com/launch1/ustream.html
fear	tweets	@cocont123 I don't know how you do it
fear	tweets	@beauknows good luck going to sleep. i'm up working on a stupid paper. no worries. ur not alone.  so u ready to record that album or what?
sadness	tweets	@JavierChua Well I am on the RIGHT side of thirty
fear	tweets	@pauljacobson if you want conversation, use email/mailing lists. I'm not convinced '140 chars and less' replies are conversation
sadness	tweets	Ginger biscuits rule !!! (by the way, I urgently need weight scales  )
sadness	tweets	@danielleg1709 hahaha this is super late, but thank you!!
fear	tweets	@tommcfly good thing really, 'cause you're never getting rid of us.  please don't leave us.
fear	tweets	is a movie afficionado. I might just as well write about the films i watch.
sadness	tweets	Fast &amp; Furious = EXCELLENT movie.  And Andy is a great guy   Most of the time....  lol
fear	tweets	@Lizzi_85 Aaaargh help -it's a conspiracy LOL! How are you today Lizzi?
fear	tweets	Zs.Nagy presents  http://www.nordugrid.org/manuals.html
fear	tweets	@eminem http://twitpic.com/4j585 - HAHA nice, now I need an iPhone
fear	tweets	@MisssV33 it's 3:37 am, i am going to sleep now. but i be back up in 4 hours...lol. good night
fear	tweets	Back home from the Wookie household. Now to dive into edits on Nemesis.  Or maybe I should work on Dusk of Death. Hmm...
fear	tweets	@URIENATOR go on msn. i need to talk to you about something that happened today
fear	tweets	@steviekaye thats what andy said a few hours ago....I HOPE THEY ACTUALLY ARE
fear	tweets	@falkingo Thanks. Have a blessed day too
fear	tweets	Arrrr better half made me brekkie in bed. Weather not 2 gud in Black Country 2day but we won't let it put the dampers on our planned bbq
sadness	tweets	@UncleCreepy (cont) a bastardized version of French? It's fun, believe me!
fear	tweets	is having this massive headache! and all i want to do is eat some nachos..
fear	tweets	@clicktokill scared what I may think of myself 2 yrs later, looking at the pix
sadness	tweets	had my first day at work and im not excited about the lay out of the place and where everything is.. o well its a job
fear	tweets	@mashable Thanks to TweetStats, I confirmed what I long suspected: Twitter is keeping me up way too late!  http://tr.im/kpc1 @tweetstats
fear	tweets	@KankzXD ohh I know her from church .. she got me into mcfly
fear	tweets	Lookin for work via online, watchin ShayCarl's latest vlog entry on youtube and textin a lady friend.  My beds calling my name though..
fear	tweets	@News3David    can I get in on this?! @Cherynstone  3 way call !!
sadness	tweets	well...gotta grab at least an hour and a half sleep before the girl's get up for school...gawd the life of multi-taskin'  night/mornin'
sadness	tweets	no school today gd  but dont get to see mates n millsy x
fear	tweets	@grooveshark I'm having elevated error rates... StreamKeys not found, and then connection problems. Server migration isn't easy, huh  ?
fear	tweets	Remind me to get out &amp; take a pic of my blooming clematis before the wind storm tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	@BJ111 by the way, it's INconvenient...
sadness	tweets	@NCLUSA Sorry to disappoint. Not a big Nascar fan but I'm still an all-around decent redneck other than that.
fear	tweets	Back to work today but I don't even mind.
sadness	tweets	is tired on her friendster account.
fear	tweets	Feeling considerably better after 13 hours sleep  still not right though...
fear	tweets	@Moni7D well then take your sexy ass to sleep then foo.  how as your weekend mami?
fear	tweets	english p1 done.  i refuse to countdown, it makes me sad. off to shower and take a nap...
fear	tweets	@ayeashleigh good. yeah i am fine thanks. just dreading history tomorrow, not in the mood for hyperactive 20 year olds lmao
sadness	tweets	no eggs today ... shame was looking forward to a egg and bacon sandwich
sadness	tweets	@andypiper I have not been aquired... It's just a new oppertunity. Sorry if they don't support mac. I won't tell more
fear	tweets	Have been practicing for the last 40 minutes. I don't think 40 minutes will suffice for 7-days worth... More later
fear	tweets	@McflyMadEmma Little Louisa is number 3 trying to get number one!  XX
fear	tweets	@SupaStarCity hahah i sowwie hun  whats up thoe ?
fear	tweets	@TomFelton hope you have a good flight
fear	tweets	@TiaSparkles  Yeah, I should at least try myself.  Have a good night &amp; visit with the Chiro tmrw!
sadness	tweets	@krisreyes here btw, this is not a bot
fear	tweets	hope's she see her bestie today
fear	tweets	Well... I hate to leave.... but I must sleep! G'night y'all and hope to chat later!  Enjoy my li'l night owls!
fear	tweets	@bellelumiere So I could just do my own thing without having to live up to any expectations
fear	tweets	where is the rain please come out
fear	tweets	My dad is taking me to school &amp; picking me up tomoz. Plus I have drama almost all day. Score bludge day
fear	tweets	is planning for surviving financial status after quitting my job, gotta find a new job within 4 months
fear	tweets	@angela_lyle Okay, und was ist mit Deinem Auto?
fear	tweets	@comedyqueen dont make plans mite go out tho if i can b bothered 2 get out ma pjs!
fear	tweets	I feel like an M&amp;M McFlurry  mmm... But I won't get one coz I need to look good for when I go to the States!!! 7 weeks 2 go aaaaahhhh!!!
sadness	tweets	Can't sleep but is happy that the Fugees are keeping him company
fear	tweets	In regard to knowledge, I am like the little robot in the movie &quot;Short Circuit.&quot; I am always crying out: &quot;Imput! Imput!&quot;
fear	tweets	@ljs777 for the most part, not enough space on one drive to properly defrag, nowhere else to put stuff, but yeah, reassembled
sadness	tweets	my mummy is cooking dinner just for me because I missed out when everybody else ate. I feel &lt;3'd
fear	tweets	@BevClement I don't think we talk much about Banks these days - not quite as respected as they once were
fear	tweets	making Shell join twitter so I have a follower
fear	tweets	I hope I'm doing something right. Had an influx of reviews on a 1 year old fan fic telling me they love my style of writing for HP.
fear	tweets	is obviously getting bored celebrating summer! ) And now listening to music and eating some pizza.
fear	tweets	Scrubs tonight (8.00pm). woo!
fear	tweets	@bettytes hey bettiye,  i did see her. stay tuned for videos and blog  hows was obsessed?? i need to get thru exams then imma watch it
fear	tweets	I hadn't realised how Long it had been since I was last 'tweeting'... Now I'm on here I don't know what to say  x
fear	tweets	@zhayrar whoa rad ! coffee makes me stay up all night
fear	tweets	@TeamCyrus  you`re welcome  how are you?
sadness	tweets	@paulusveltman Ja  Deze is interessanter - Why text messages are limited to 160 characters - http://tr.im/kpgg
fear	tweets	@Zingtoh Who knows, maybe someday you'll come home and find... *gasp* DINNER in your FRIDGE!
fear	tweets	@StephanieMxx Yeah, I try 2 chat wif all too. It can b hard to find tweeps online @ the same time sometimes
fear	tweets	@ElvisHsiao Haha great, ok don't eat too many or you'll feel sick
fear	tweets	Another water leak in my appartement. The good side is that I get to meet the girls previous &amp; next floors
sadness	tweets	@denvy Oh whoops, my bad
fear	tweets	@AnitaBreakSoon Oh I'm on a roll now with these oldies!  ? http://blip.fm/~5jeu7
fear	tweets	LaLaLaLand... why am i liking that song so much?! Anyhoo.... grr I have a cold, but thank goodness though the sore throat has gone!!
fear	tweets	just arrived at @eurodjangocon, on about 150 fellows i can't see a girl!
sadness	tweets	When life, as you know it, doesn't exist anymore.
fear	tweets	Where art thou @niokiaquino? I miss you!
fear	tweets	Cloudy day in Berlin. Just about right to sit in front of a computer all day
fear	tweets	LaLaLand... why am i liking that song so much?! Anyhoo.... grr I have a cold, but thank goodness though the sore throat has gone!!
fear	tweets	@IDrive_Online When will the maintanance end? I would like to backup some stuff.
fear	tweets	Listening to music, Texting . umm Msn lol.  bit bored . lol. Garth Brooks wooo i love him hehe . &lt;3
sadness	tweets	@lynnftw I know exactly what you are saying.. its so not cool... that is why tapes were better  :p
fear	tweets	Kaze the Knight. Third level, a lamp, a wish. Got fixed SDSM (first thought was about rubber chicken but hey)  #nethack
fear	tweets	just had steamed fish w/ oyster sauce
fear	tweets	@KrisColvin I would advise watching it in the cinema. I am sure the effects are worth it. Unless you have a monster TV at home
fear	tweets	@MissxMarisa Hell unlucky! :O and and it comes out next week here.
fear	tweets	is amazed as to how artificial one can be  its just soo itchyyy
fear	tweets	@katcal always wanted to see that film never got round to it must get it on DVD tell me if its any good
sadness	tweets	@Gjerninger Are you sure you want to know?  It's http://bit.ly/AUuAC - it makes me want to run. In other news: Happy Star Wars Day!
fear	tweets	@Faz4980 thanks  and ill cross my fingers for you, that the rain will stop
fear	tweets	@MrMiistro that's good. Im ok aye!!! a little stressed but fine
fear	tweets	@rvailleux : woot please post a pic, I won't recognize you without it
sadness	tweets	@emulley I missed you today...I know you must feel very tired. I will give you a massage tonight
sadness	tweets	@frogworth hey, have a great gig! We'll have to do exchange of tracks via ze emayal  I'm all lost in loops right now and still writing xx
fear	tweets	@rizkyinayati heeeey good luck for unair sweet!
fear	tweets	Good morning twitter world.raining in dingle- hopefully means a busy day for me
fear	tweets	just got home had a major daily tset today. its math and i wish i got 6 or more
fear	tweets	wellity! i think ima gonna clean my room :| Gay. i need to read a good book. sense and sensibility here we come! BEAT THE LILY
fear	tweets	Dear God please let me wake up before 11:45 AM tomorrow lol Got plans  Tonight was lets pick on Hero night. grow up, get a job, etc. lolz
sadness	tweets	graandma's houseee  i havee too leave now! &lt;3
sadness	tweets	discovering kindred spirits on and off line, here and there.
sadness	tweets	@sophieveronica Ha-ha abbreviate it , so it's not so bulky
fear	tweets	@mike_taff_jones  Oh and...NEVAR USE KDE IT IS MADE OF FAIL!
fear	tweets	@fajarjasmin i'm a huge fan of Take That since i was a baby.. Yeah, 6 months really feels like 5 months.
fear	tweets	Reading Breaking Dawn
fear	tweets	@ohmanitsjessa I KNOW! I KNOW!...stop clapping
fear	tweets	@BlondMobile not sure if i need to hear what VC's think.  There's been problems in their business models..  Will the momo thing be good?
sadness	tweets	its the little things that I'll always cherish about you....
fear	tweets	Listening to Distorting a Code by Spinnerette and just cant wait to get my hands on their full length
fear	tweets	@taylorgodwin it is, and its shiny and if i could marry it i would.   ps. im good, you?
fear	tweets	@JLSOfficial ... but i could barely speak! He was probably thinking 'who is the weirdo?' LOOOOL. Say sorry to him for me please?  x &lt;3
fear	tweets	@grentone No trips planned yet but I'll let you know if there is
fear	tweets	@SmilinNursAnnie now that's an imtetsting visual.
fear	tweets	doesnt have a hangover  and is getting ready for a good ol' english fry up
sadness	tweets	@saikatblogger Its WoW! effect  Thanks for the update.
fear	tweets	@Nikkiko Congrats on your new phone!
fear	tweets	@luluberry_0981 LOL I was going to do some homework, but kind of got distracted... Again...  Goodnight!
fear	tweets	Haha. It's pretty good  they're making something with chicken  yum!
fear	tweets	@ Nickchien @chaubella_ i am happy to break my twitter virginity with you two.
fear	tweets	Yay! I just fixed my blog's CSS problem that messed up the design
sadness	tweets	@tomatosponge hey, no we were second, kind sad, but it's ok   guitar, guitar, guitar  BBQ and good time  what about you&gt;?
fear	tweets	never thought my daughter would want to borrow my clothes... even less that she would suggest that i borrow hers... luckily it didnt fit
fear	tweets	i'm actually starting to quite like lily allen and her music, to be honest.
fear	tweets	loves the way the sky looks now i.e. no cloud at all.  but that would only mean that it's ultra hot outside.... http://plurk.com/p/rpb7t
sadness	tweets	borred what everyone doingn check out links on my profile
sadness	tweets	it's Blockbuster week in New Zealand - &quot;Wolverine&quot; tomorrow followed by &quot;Star Trek&quot; on Thursday!
fear	tweets	@AnsamsKitchen  walah me 2 still i am not getting the full idea
fear	tweets	@EricaNurney Nah... to be honest, I'm not a 'drinker' as such....  would rather have a protein shake and go for a run LOL
sadness	tweets	@Snowgirl1972 have to avoid the burning desire to say I already have one  no, no room for piglets, just enough room for chucks
fear	tweets	@imogenheap AM's good for us GMT-ish people, I think.  Looking forward to it and hope you're batteries &amp; laptop will be recharged soon.
fear	tweets	I'm a new french girl in Twitter! And I speak English very bad
fear	tweets	my myspace profile is OLLLD NEWSZ i need to editeditedittt
fear	tweets	@tyhowells Not swine flu I hope! Take care of your health mate  Tell me about your business derek_bell@mac.com
sadness	tweets	is sick!!!! and just chilling tonight watching Desperate Housewives
fear	tweets	@player112345 Good Morrow! How are you this fair morn?
sadness	tweets	@SoMuchMo aww, i miss u already! and this DEF sums up the wknd lol
fear	tweets	@nanashambles I don't have any
fear	tweets	is watching wolverine at last.
fear	tweets	@inrsoul yup. That's the thing. I think 3 is kinda acceptable and reasonable for proper lighting and fill in.  U can run away with 2 tho
fear	tweets	@UKLisaW btw, i am actually just trying to get my own lazy bottom in gear.  Me lots to do to and still not dressed !
fear	tweets	I must have just missed @Slackadjusterr @Markinark &amp; I guess I scared @ARealRedneck &amp; @SilverSurfer_TX off...  Sorry
fear	tweets	@fossiloflife Leave multitasking to us women  @prateekgupta
fear	tweets	shut up.
fear	tweets	@Parascience house probably resembling your kind of heaven no?  maybe Ciaran's angels have moved in with you, hence inability to locate!
fear	tweets	@Sixxjohn well then close your pretty eyes and count boring sheep  you'll be sleeping in no time
sadness	tweets	@BigHugClub that gets around the problem I had of doing it all myself  good idea.
fear	tweets	Ok back later, have a great time regardless of the weather  PS I'm only a BB away!
fear	tweets	Getting back my English minor exam soon. dum dum dum duuuum. Me and Margrete had a burping comp. haha. I WON
fear	tweets	@sawwaa I wish I could work like you, dude...
fear	tweets	@karinber Yes babe, you're so welcome!
sadness	tweets	@vian1309 yeah real hard, but I know you'll get by with it... smile
fear	tweets	@JeffShemano of course LOL about to eat more
fear	tweets	@krissysalisbury Oh, don't spoil my fun, lol
fear	tweets	@willadam Granted, it won't do that, either
fear	tweets	looking for my self... be right back.
fear	tweets	@Jen_christie keep the faith it'll be over soon
sadness	tweets	@QueenieCyrus morning miss sarah cyrus ;) WHAT'S UP?  x
fear	tweets	Going to see star trek
fear	tweets	@A_warwounds_C I feel ya pain, I've got myself a nasty cold too. Get better soon
fear	tweets	More big hair rock for bank holiday Monday always seems fitting IMO  ? http://blip.fm/~5jfuu
fear	tweets	@robertrich the no tweeting guilt trip didn't stop you huh?  I felt so bad!
fear	tweets	Lots of money  some DVDs and this cute thing!!! http://twitpic.com/4jble
fear	tweets	@lexia first ripping off the bbc design, now bebo? For shame..
fear	tweets	I'm hurtling headlong into a day of spanish and art. but my view is: after tomorrow it's just REVISION and extra frees
fear	tweets	@hnprashanth I can understand!
fear	tweets	@ankeshk @ankeshk I don't think I like this Roy Williams who dissects frogs while still alive &gt;  You look like Chachi from Happy Days
fear	tweets	Is off to London
fear	tweets	@joeconway ahhh.. what about the others? like #hoppusday and etc? I'm such a spazz
sadness	tweets	@Naiadrisa Heh, that's happened to me before too. Hope the rest of your week goes better!
sadness	tweets	@bennglazier nup no cd either.. just a whole bunch of zeros and ones you can have for free
fear	tweets	have been to portugal. and spain. and has a sore throat. scary?
fear	tweets	@Littlepiddle1 hey chicLit whats happening? Just trying to promote my business, it's really hard!
fear	tweets	@Moonshayde I hope you aren't allergic to dust  Choc or syrup?
fear	tweets	@LeahJKelly Well, all I can do, is pray for you.....
fear	tweets	@jeffreecuntstar decent Australian guys are hard to find...trust me, you're better off with an American one
sadness	tweets	@dutchreaganite ROFLMAO! I feel inspired to go start a huge bonfire now
fear	tweets	@DannyjClayton star wars ............ is gay BOO??? i wanna do your jobe HAND IT OVER  u can act as me at my high school   LOL
fear	tweets	@jetskiworld  Haha ! Go Martin ! His fixed our Ski like a million times ...
fear	tweets	@Aligonzalez43 its ok. im juz curious
fear	tweets	@Echarlotte hi on twitter!!!LOL..i don't use it very much. its confusing sometimes. but yay!!!7 more days bubble!!!eeek  xx
fear	tweets	@locuta did I miss something??
sadness	tweets	the dutchess - such a sad film but still a fave...
sadness	tweets	Boring. Sunny Monday. No school. Tired. Lazy. Hungry. Yeah, in a great mood!
fear	tweets	@mcevoy1rachael yupp t's better than people being rude to her  x
sadness	tweets	day started off bad but got better
sadness	tweets	am hungry.. going to eat... catch up with you guys later &amp; 4 people who are hurt by my sardonic quotes - why are you waiting, hit me back
fear	tweets	@dpressman well well...so sorry! let's dance  it's fabulous hobby
sadness	tweets	@fudgecrumpet ok i believe you.but i have a belly button.lol
fear	tweets	My mom and my little sister're gonna be back home soooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooon
sadness	tweets	night out had 2 b put on hold 4 2 weeks coz i was so ill last nite, gutted! still had a nice nite tho  but whers the sun gone!
fear	tweets	I feel so stupid for saying this, but.... I DON'T KNOW HOW TO TWITTER SOME ONE PLEASE HELP ME. Ppl please do not laugh, ok laugh but...
sadness	tweets	Hate this song  ? http://blip.fm/~5jg6f
sadness	tweets	Well after a glorious weekend, it's only bloody raining... Nice BH in order then!
fear	tweets	@Karen230683 lol good..glad to hear it! I was totally paranoid when i bit of hair touched my ear or cheek, was mad! Ha! How's you?
fear	tweets	@hobbit_gd whoaa kinda hard :O that one that you think will be interesting enough to tell
fear	tweets	my n95 hacked  no signing needed.. thx OPDA
fear	tweets	but im not complaining.
fear	tweets	@horstp funny that. We had outgoing email issues most of the day too. Thank the gods for seperate adsl2 connections
fear	tweets	i've just woken up
fear	tweets	happy bank holiday Monday, Tweeteramas! I'll be spending the day doing yoga and having OCD attacks. You?
sadness	tweets	@Tizzik Yeah ill make sure i keep you updated.. i get it all delivered
fear	tweets	@allthatglitrs21 - 21 days to go  Happy birthday for then
sadness	tweets	@fudgecrumpet saw the deforestation.so not surprised of bad back but @mrsfudgecrumpet moan back at you.lol
fear	tweets	@Emmieman and what a scary reflection it was! thought you were going to wizz your pants
fear	tweets	curious if they fixed the window handle in our room in the meantime  #edc
fear	tweets	@roshnimo ask @RajaSen to create a fake competetion and declare you the winner and then gift you a return ticket courtesy the producers.
sadness	tweets	@underdog1979 Was gonna say, probably kill ya, serve the sentence and be living on the insurance cash by now.  You are insured right LOL
fear	tweets	At LA Fitness, at work right now.....pretty busy morning
sadness	tweets	So, what are you all doing? I'm eating crackers! Yummy. The unsalted ones of course. I only do salt in my caviar.
fear	tweets	ok my friend is about to dye my hair black scary i know, ill try to post some pics tonight if not tomorrow for ur verdict
fear	tweets	@fudgecrumpet hope it isnt too hot a summer then.hows little one today,being good i hope.lol
fear	tweets	@lyssiecc haha good phone conversation cat lady! You're gonna be homeless too  you didn't tell me u were having coffee!! coming tomorrow?
sadness	tweets	@ChloeCazRhi why thankyouu!
fear	tweets	@AnnieBGoode Yes, that would be pretty creepy. I think its all a bit more innocent than that, I think he just wants to sell some icecream
fear	tweets	Wishing it was a sunny day, then I might just be bothered to get outta bed! ..up the blues
sadness	tweets	Wtf why am i JUST getting up now? HM:TM today  but before that... revision revision revision :/
sadness	tweets	can't sleep throat dry as hell.. ugh ! still gon' wake up fabulous !
sadness	tweets	@Beverleyknight Hiyaaaaaa  just got back from the scan! wow, was amazing, i cried haha, xx
fear	tweets	Not only has it broken but it's Monday!!Does this mean Monday can be fix'd?  ? http://blip.fm/~5jgio
sadness	tweets	@Zobi09 Haha yes I do  it's hard work, too! I didn't get home until 3:00 AM, not like I sleep haha.
fear	tweets	@the_anke What's wrong with the ski slopes of MK? They've got coffee shops as well y'know!
fear	tweets	@Dichenlachman Yea, D means direct, so only u and whoever u send it to can see it  But u can only direct msg someone who's following u..
sadness	tweets	shower time!!!!!
fear	tweets	&quot;No more sorrow&quot;! by: Linkin Park....
fear	tweets	Getting ready for school, good mood already
fear	tweets	@echsizzles I am in Kuala Lumpur. And I know I vanished, haha! I broke up with my last boyfriend, that's why I'm back!
sadness	tweets	another week starts
fear	tweets	I totally needed that sleep.  need to stretch and wash though now.
fear	tweets	Morning  don't ask me why I'm up so early
fear	tweets	OMG. Missed bus, walking miles, for a coffee  Went to see my ex-classmates
fear	tweets	@willembuchner I'm putting in Societe Generale in China. Very interesting stuff but has me away too much ... gotta fix that!
fear	tweets	@DeveshM just had a look - missed out by a couple of hours, i'm sorry. i'll let you know next time..
sadness	tweets	This weekend went by way too fast!  On my way to work with David Archuleta in tow.
fear	tweets	@TheRealNobody thanks  i'm up every night all night. bad sleeping schedule lol why are you still up?
fear	tweets	@KiransMommy I know all about the awful shifts! And he should feel better after he gets tubes in his ears on May 12th but thank you
fear	tweets	Just leaving rainy forks, starting the long journey home! Rachel, if ur reading this, dont worry il send the stuff as soon as i get back
fear	tweets	@IYL86 Well yeah, the hormone things basically a given  thought he had misbehaved specifically to upset your mom and you.
fear	tweets	@LovefromNaja Fresh change from hearing i write sins hey!!?? Not that theres anything wrong with that!
fear	tweets	Been working on a framework for web based #SL application. Have product registration, server, login, site, security, &amp; comms all done
fear	tweets	Is going to be off line for the rest of the day. Made some progress on a game over the weekend. @lvturner you may not like me again.
fear	tweets	Star Wars day? I didn't know there was a such thing  May the force, be with you &lt;3
fear	tweets	Creating your business in The US from France looks quiet easy
fear	tweets	sooo 5 days till I take off  sun and sea u're waiting for meeee can't say if i can get all my stuff packed up in time.. &lt;3 Guadeloupe &lt;3
fear	tweets	@snagy no other reason? I wonder if she loves you
fear	tweets	@SmellTheRainbow really .. least u wont hav 2 put up wiv him
fear	tweets	@rohant yeah that will keep my mid section down
fear	tweets	is so hungover. what a crazy night. i'm also in the bad books with mother!!
sadness	tweets	Mentally exhausted.  A cuppa right now with almond biscotti would be really nice.
sadness	tweets	Going to group therapy session, can't wait to spill my guts... Ha ha ha
fear	tweets	good morning guys!  experimental chemistry test this morning :s wish me luck!
sadness	tweets	@abeen good question. Nepal PM declaring to resign and actually resigning is two very different things .
sadness	tweets	@bwhips Good to know I'm not alone in my confusion
fear	tweets	@knighttcat Oh man 3 in a day?? Torture much?! Well good luck there too!! I have exams for 19 days.How stupid? Soon we will party right?
fear	tweets	ok, 1st ginormous cup of coffee down, monday looking much better to me.
fear	tweets	Dump my boyfriend, find a much much better man and the girl can get a nice knuckle sandwich from moi
sadness	tweets	@nptnmkiii so many rules - you expect people to be human and have a pic.  pfft.    good morning.  welcome to another Monday.
fear	tweets	@Coughran Soon I hope... Really need to finish the cloning project so I can get more done
sadness	tweets	@Sweet_Charlotte We should! There will be another thrown I'm sure but this one will be with my American family
fear	tweets	just a week left till radio:active dvd come out! i really can't wait
fear	tweets	@marinesetwas dann mach mal!  #12seconds
fear	tweets	@caluvminwoo  Way too many people indeed... I only recognize the Chinese guy... LOL
fear	tweets	Market whn goes lower also problem and when it goes like a wild bull also problem
fear	tweets	@Amileegrant its hilarious
fear	tweets	@AKAVirtualPA Kat Stewart did a great job with a great character not that I watched #underbelly in Victoria
sadness	tweets	@sparklethots love that birdy nest! though i already got us another kind
fear	tweets	Shower/traffic/factory yaaaay
fear	tweets	@stephenfry  I've been single so long all I have is a Hans Solo
fear	tweets	It's 6 am, I haven't been to bed yet, and I just got my second wind.  Guess I should edit or read or something until I feel tired huh?
fear	tweets	@paminnewzealand Hiya! You might want to delete and retweet - the link to your blog doesn't work
fear	tweets	3 days of frisbee, three nights of partying and sprained ligaments. Can't imagine a better long weekend
fear	tweets	i want to see go:audio, someone take me please?  5DAYS(L)
fear	tweets	Going to bed  how's ever reading this
fear	tweets	@VideoHive Here's getting cold.. And I got my coffee break 2 minutes ago. Enjoy your drink
fear	tweets	Hope it becomes okay soon @samaliksi
fear	tweets	@forrrrrrrrrrest http://twitpic.com/4jazs - Congratulations! You two are adorable. Beautiful ring too!
fear	tweets	@Shauntrice my bad homie
fear	tweets	Unlike cierra, i look like poop today. Whatevahh, lol.
sadness	tweets	thats my moan for the day
fear	tweets	*flop* back after going out to bag #geocache GC1QR2R nice hide.
fear	tweets	writing my english original writing storyyyyy. and listening to 'a little respect' by erasure  aaaaaah.
fear	tweets	@yumecouk haha, nice wheels. Victoria will be doing her own peddling thankfully, the boys will get the free ride
sadness	tweets	@Yassak you hate her, I love her.  presentation got cancelled. I got up at 0600 and went in to work today for this pitch !
fear	tweets	Happy star wars day! May the fourth be with you
fear	tweets	@Epiphora  I'd have read it but I'm not sure you would have wanted my opinion
sadness	tweets	@FotoWala Nice - your book will be a ready reckoner for new stuff next time I'm there!
fear	tweets	i  miss my boyfriend so much like you don't even know ;/ but in 2 hours i'll see his oval face
sadness	tweets	well i'm gonna go now.  goodbye all.
fear	tweets	It's going to be a good week
fear	tweets	now going to watch the brand new episode of 'The Hills'  cant wait!!
fear	tweets	In a rush....   Lunchtime anyway
fear	tweets	morning.. just,  going to destroy a few more  trees in aid of research
fear	tweets	@learymay Oooh... that's right by the zoo... think... in 2 months' time that could be our regular other meeting place
fear	tweets	@EmmaJaney ohh, yeah well. im sick today so i win
sadness	tweets	Waaaa. I ran my machine problem! Yeah!
sadness	tweets	eating breakfast  getting ready to go to school ;(
fear	tweets	@silmy Bandung, my hehe but I'm home now
fear	tweets	@craigend I only do computers. Am hopeless at everything else
sadness	tweets	@iamdiddy If I knew it was gonna be this kind of party, I would've stuck my dick in the mashed potatoes!
fear	tweets	collage. what is feminism?
fear	tweets	@dipfico: hmmm, wrong link, ignore my tweet
fear	tweets	@lauVanExel @Ramoso, just dont understand what's it got to do with me. I'm just a nice girl
fear	tweets	@superrichguy werd. that's very true
fear	tweets	@lameBIRDIE aw its okay tht happened wid me too..am so glad thts OVER now!am not helpin here am i?!?lol thnx for postin WMIAD  loved it
sadness	tweets	The Aspitar Hospital in Doha is amazing. Great service, nice building and free WiFi. Win
fear	tweets	@hot30 how do you win the trip to america? please reply xo
fear	tweets	Woke up at 10am, my alarm didnt wake me up so @samm_xo did by sending me the best text!
fear	tweets	wonders what some dancers have against glitter? Just don't wear it. Don't create a whiny group about it. Ok, I'm done.
fear	tweets	@sucka99 yep 14 days whoop
fear	tweets	@dannykurily awww hope you get better
fear	tweets	And gadget show today  Can today be any better?
fear	tweets	@1sweetwhirl  It's a pleasure , Will be wary of girlie marshmallows from now on lol  You might have saved my life .lol ;-)
fear	tweets	@patently and yes, I have seen your comment and yes, I did have the right answer.  I'll get over it.
sadness	tweets	@pd1001 Aw poor you..ironing! Eek! lol It's raining here too.....prob try and get out with the kids later..nt too exciting im afraid!
fear	tweets	@JamieLynnMB i had my son when i was 16.he's now 10..and twins at 19,age doesnt matter! there are worse parents out there that are older!
fear	tweets	No more tickets for today.  Having dinner with Mimcy after work, then we head home. Then again, she might get a call
sadness	tweets	@suzi_meow YEAH U Better BE !!
sadness	tweets	@threefromleith Poor you. I'm off on Bank Holiday Monday today too
fear	tweets	@SWIFTas omg evie. we have to do our plan for hot 30 tomorrow night
fear	tweets	@ElonNarai Ugh, looks like you'll have some work to do . Good luck
fear	tweets	hopefully today will work in our favor
sadness	tweets	Boo to the rain. Just got all pruney in the bath  oo its may day..the crazy morris dancers will be having it large in ampthill lol.
fear	tweets	hmm... now what to do today... i suppose i could revise for my science test :/ or i could just eat cookies and watch films
fear	tweets	Tanya is jealous because I'm Mike's new favorite  It's because he tried to kiss me over the weekend....pictures to follow at 95sx.com
fear	tweets	so the Today show still hasn't gotten in touch with me, i wish they would so i can take my friends and myself to the NKOTB show
fear	tweets	@buglegirl Thanks! I'm not quite ready for a marathon yet -- if at all, not this year anyway.
fear	tweets	@David_Henrie oh my god, yeah! that cake looks delish! i hope you shared it! haha.
fear	tweets	@Vixster25 Internet 1 drawing 0 ....damn I'm backing up blackberry files which could take hours  then to the drawing preps done
fear	tweets	@shakeyz09 so I take it, it wasn't the best weekend?
fear	tweets	@bsweens haha they might! good luck if you're taking it as well  i'm hoping I get a 1 for putting my name down
fear	tweets	@wajeeha i hope you knew its due tuesday
sadness	tweets	&quot;My problem isn't that I miss you... 'cause I don't&quot;
fear	tweets	@coollike FAIL
fear	tweets	@inks Does it hurt? How much you lost?
fear	tweets	@Vixster25 I cant it... gets pissy if I unplug it when its not finished hahaha
fear	tweets	I Miss Daddy and Mommy
fear	tweets	@Dee_Staack Pfft ... i dont have the guts .. YOU TELL HIM  and say its a fundraiser like .. PFFT
sadness	tweets	It's 6.30pm - sun is setting soon, and i should be setting off soon too! Grab some dinner and catch sitcoms!
sadness	tweets	listening to AM- teddy picker  She saw it and she grabbed it and it wasn't what it seemed
fear	tweets	but I am one in a million
fear	tweets	@tommcfly Hey Tom. Have your plans to make an concert in Denmark this year?  please reply xxx
fear	tweets	msn-ing. no school  shouldn't there be more bank holidays? x
fear	tweets	@fylaviedanat flo can spell antidisestablishmentarianism off the top of her head. wait i just did
fear	tweets	@NickieNix why are you eating at 4 am, after party munchies??? guess that means no more denny's
fear	tweets	@GeekWearsPrada Wasn't all bad #celtics won! But yeah, hope the #redsox do better. Good morning BTW.
fear	tweets	@DejaMeade For the record, Madina Lake played your song third.  At least your enjoyed The Audition though?
fear	tweets	#MQM has opted to strike, May 12th - Altaf bhai to unveil what really happened in #Karachi  http://tinyurl.com/c73ehq
sadness	tweets	apparently it's starwars day today  I like this . Shame I have revision though.
fear	tweets	Nugget bit Jack. I told him not to poke the poor hamster!
fear	tweets	rcb trashes mumbai indians....  i feel bad for mumbai indians, they just didn't know what hit him...
fear	tweets	Back from a wonderful vacation. Had perfect weather and now back to the rainy 'burgh and reality.
fear	tweets	@karuski try again, minna  i edited quickly, sorry!
fear	tweets	another lazy day i supposee
sadness	tweets	Bank holiday in the UK, it's raining! Typical UK Bank Holiday weather! If it dries later I'll get the chainsaw out for the trees!
fear	tweets	@johnnyrcooper go to bed mister! u need your beauty sleep
fear	tweets	@crazyspeak so give me a quick update grace, you've quit the foodland job and you start at JB's tomorrow full time? heaps exciting
fear	tweets	Fixing openbox theme a little
fear	tweets	@Lindseyyx3 I think the x3 is confusing ;-) can't believe that many peeps will know that it should be a heart
fear	tweets	I really need a job.
fear	tweets	thinking my fridge may be dieing...please not this week...pleeeeeassseee!!!
sadness	tweets	@Amesox heyy dude, yuup thats it really hows your monday?  x
fear	tweets	Am heading into lovely Suffolk to a nice pub.  May tweet later, but hopefully I'll be too distrcated
fear	tweets	@ronskie66 not got virgin yet... not sure I can, tbh ... thanks anyway!
fear	tweets	@cottonpanty Miss you my dear
sadness	tweets	I'm dragging myself out of the low point. Slowly. And with wine to assist. Prob not v sensible but these lows don't hit very often.
sadness	tweets	is excited to be visited by her twin and best friend! dinner, star gazing, and a movie!   // cool http://gykd.net
sadness	tweets	In a philosophical mood tonight, wandering round after dark does that for me
fear	tweets	@boburnham I'm sorry you're feeling bad, hope you get better soon... you know, if the plague doesn't getcha.
fear	tweets	@Xenooo ohhh. i didn't log on there, pity me. was it great?
sadness	tweets	@fiendfyre Never ever smoking around you again.
sadness	tweets	@rossmcw Happy birthday. Let us know what you get up to old boy
fear	tweets	Is feeling surprisingly fresh after a 12hr bender
fear	tweets	Head in the clouds
fear	tweets	thinking of getting new dvds, csi.  can't wait to get my laptop.
fear	tweets	Gonna go to my aunts party. It's gonna be a late night thing so hopfully I can get up for school tomorrow!
fear	tweets	@nottheword yum, yum.  I love quesadillas....and wallpaper for that matter tooo
sadness	tweets	@alyankovic Oh! I ate pizza last night too!  I stupidly feel closer to you somehow!
sadness	tweets	i'm watching missing pieces, just coz the theme song is lost without you
fear	tweets	@RiceRabbit Baking WIN! Thanks for that!
fear	tweets	just finished Wander Girl for the nth time-- Hilda Gallares is truly a kindred soul.
fear	tweets	@mccy you do realize tom fletcher from mcfly JUST posted basically the same thing!! TWINS!
fear	tweets	Thank you all so much! Hopefully everything will be okay  Tons of kisses to all of you ) http://tinyurl.com/dxa8xg
sadness	tweets	@bhuto given the way kunal khemu etc. starrers turn out..there is a high probability of it being 'shit' rather than 'niche'!
fear	tweets	@FRUITofDOOM Not sure if this is good or bad news for you, but you are listed as staff: http://www.thesixthaxis.com/staff/
fear	tweets	@MacQuid You're a fine looking set of neighbours, I must say! Lots of compliments have been showered upon your header graphic too
sadness	tweets	@XKirstyxo Basket Case is mine  I miss it.. Going to have to listen a shit load now
fear	tweets	One of my kits has just brought in a mouse &amp; is eating it in the lobby. I'm sure I feed them enough!
fear	tweets	hey twitter! i'm back online!
fear	tweets	*shriek* Bee almost flew here from window. I'm not afraid of spiders or zombies in my dreams..But I run when bee is in same room with me.
fear	tweets	F.Y.I. a lot of you people that are following me i have unfollowed a lot of you  yer kinda boring me or not really helpful to my e-growth!
fear	tweets	@michaelmknight oh i wish my dear Michael, i wish
fear	tweets	has one more paper left
fear	tweets	@aplusk oh good luck on the movie
fear	tweets	@GintareAuglyte hey  how are you?  x
fear	tweets	@iHolleeee Okaii Cool!  I Can't Wait For The Series To Begin It's Guna Be Awesome  x
fear	tweets	@x3f  dude they renamed it to something no one will remember &amp; find even harder 2 joke about. Its a myth  to keep u scared
fear	tweets	@lyssiecc i like the positivity  And no. you may NOT change your carrer. crazyb dog lady just isn't the same.... when's your maths test? x
sadness	tweets	lol if i only can sTay up a few more hours.. i keep missing Tila's lasT posTs ..
fear	tweets	@tubbyloo same with drunk guests.. Our jobs are pretty similar sometimes
fear	tweets	@jonconnelly will add that. It should be hard really to keep track of 500 avatars.
fear	tweets	@andycroll can you repeat what was bad about singapore pools website please?
fear	tweets	@cnn Any others jobs like this available? Sounds like a great experience. Direct message if you know of any others.
fear	tweets	$900 cheque to cash tomorrow, why I didn't get it in the bank I have no idea. Feel safe to get the 500D now though  woooo
sadness	tweets	@Howby26 hm, sorry to hear that! well, keep holding on! my break is over, i'll go take a nap now!
sadness	tweets	Hard to start the week after a long fun sunny weekend of tennis, free food and drink, and very nice people. 5 days to go until next round
fear	tweets	kicking back at home
sadness	tweets	Right, I must be off to do some sewing. Bye x
fear	tweets	Watched Australia last night and got to say bloody fantastic film with the added bonus of Hugh Jackman  definitely a got to see movie.
fear	tweets	is going for morrisons breakfast with my boy today  wooooooooooo.
sadness	tweets	up late last night  .... Oracle from 8 to 4:30
fear	tweets	@theblowups just be careful you don't dunk too long
sadness	tweets	@mshady courgette
fear	tweets	@minnaryyni Heh, aye. I should have investigated properly first before asking  Does seem like it's not the most obvious thing though.
fear	tweets	@aworldinside ngl, my favourite thing about wikipedia sometimes is that it makes wookiepedia such an easy pisstake.
fear	tweets	@EllaPaigeBabe hey im back  i replyed xxx
sadness	tweets	hey everyone, guess what? ROONEY ISN'T COMING TODAY!
fear	tweets	If I could only update my status in just one place....
sadness	tweets	@kixxa I'm somehow totally distracted by that shirt!  I don't even know why.Suddenly he's like the guy next door!
fear	tweets	@ColinMackay I think I left my conference feedback sheet in my bag. Oops. Just say Excellent for everything  Found out about it from you
sadness	tweets	Is babysitting 3 dogs...they are all over the place...
sadness	tweets	@DaveWares working, my 4-day weekend is over, aah well another one coming in 2 weeks
fear	tweets	@aussie_ali  that wretched Blue nun has you in her clutches Miss Ali!!!!!  S L O    W  down
fear	tweets	School can blow me. He looks nice today thoughh.
fear	tweets	Goodmorning world
sadness	tweets	sorry mum, will treat you well from now on
fear	tweets	Neglecting the boy, apparently... I'm outro, for real life
sadness	tweets	My Life Would Suck Without You - Kelly Clarkson
fear	tweets	@girlgamy you can also watch Family Guy online. www.fancast.com  And yes I am a total shill.
fear	tweets	@iantalbot You're still welcome - the door's wide enough for your zimmer frame
sadness	tweets	Just a couple thoughts....was bored this morning
fear	tweets	Good morning twitterland. Happy Monday
fear	tweets	Still Doing Grench paper and still getting distracted
fear	tweets	@cbear80 indeedy! weather crappy then, god now. pity its dark! :O hopefully it stays dry!
fear	tweets	Goood Afternooon
fear	tweets	Being involved in requirements and architecture is nice and all, but now I'm looking forward to writing some code!
fear	tweets	@GeeEmm There will be NO vidoe evidence!  I can't wait, though. Now I just need 2 find a regular partner if I end up loving it!
fear	tweets	I'm going into a spiritual stagnentation, its exploding my ego!. I now realise, i'm not all that great. and I'm ok with that.
fear	tweets	OMG!! im sooo lazyy... i can't believe im googling for a command/app to close the CD tray.. i tried telekinesis, didn't quite work though
sadness	tweets	@pickleshy it's tongue in cheek of some mentalities.There is another one which takes the piss of arabs, but its too long
fear	tweets	@mcarvin I don't feel too bad, but not sure to what I should attribute that. Could be cold &amp; flu meds; nap; alcohol; or getting better...
fear	tweets	@bmthofficial i am seeing you in sydney in 12 days for the third time
fear	tweets	@_xotashhh I love having days off school, I had one on friday too
fear	tweets	Download movie  &quot;Still Waiting...&quot; http://tinyurl.com/d9g8sj cool #movie
fear	tweets	@Catwoman123 Have a good one
sadness	tweets	@MerCuriosJewels Wonderful trip!  Read all 4 Twilight novels.  Completely all consuming and engrossing.  Kinda sad to be done.
fear	tweets	@qatesiuradewyo I would cry a little. Wait...no I mean, the mechanical army would be -so- pleased to have proper representation. X-me!
fear	tweets	implementing will_paginate  on my website; i love rails
fear	tweets	listening to varsity fanclub
fear	tweets	@Wil_Anderson your tweets were awesome  fuck the heat. That's what dencorub is for
fear	tweets	@LauriM could do, will the fact that its bank holiday make any difference? lemme check my money situation also
sadness	tweets	Especially hard to get out of bed with myself this morn Cuz I'm hot  , Now running late stuck in front of the mirror checking Myself Out
fear	tweets	@morganmg starbucks? I thought u were trying to b good?!
fear	tweets	@talktomikesmith yep. but  what does it mean?!  Would you think outside the box to make name very clear what exactly is wrapped and why
fear	tweets	@fawn_s  Accept it, you can't do anything, can you?
fear	tweets	4th may officially announced as 'bad luck day' ..
fear	tweets	@DhruvChadha welcome back to school, don't study too hard, take time off and smell roses too
fear	tweets	@BecaBear 1000 = make sure it has the word poo or balls in it  Underbelly DOES suck balls... I gave up on it in wk 3.
fear	tweets	Working on Canada Shoots information.  Coming your way soon if you have expressed interest and I have your email address . Eh!!!
sadness	tweets	its funny you said we'd never make it and look how far we've come....  IM BACK ON HEAHHH!  um. yeah. school :/
sadness	tweets	in the mood to listen to some Reg stuff  (Sir told me: U used to be a huge fan of mine but now it seems you've forgotten my songs!!!) )
fear	tweets	hopes tonight is an okay night
sadness	tweets	weathers let me down this morning...ugh!...hada gd nite tho!
fear	tweets	trying to record my audio source, maybe I need a specific program @vhadZe I'm good thank you  hehe
fear	tweets	@davidspruell Just ripping here.  That ad buy I was going to speak w/you about looks to be on hold for a bit. Company changed hands. :-/
fear	tweets	Awsome workout! Shower n then work, nice
fear	tweets	Trued a rim!  I'm getting good at this! o_O
fear	tweets	@dholbach Sounds good. &quot;This patch was brought to you by ...&quot;
sadness	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hbp3g  Canalway Cavalcade over in 'little venice' near Warwick Avenue - on today too
fear	tweets	claires party was amazing!    headache.
sadness	tweets	Respect to @fresh01 for the Heineken man bag  http://twitpic.com/4jdrg
fear	tweets	@nanere awwww... I'm sorry! I changed the picture... just for you! Because you rock like that!
fear	tweets	@Apachekiller Should I worry?
fear	tweets	When you see someone without a smile pass them yours
sadness	tweets	STILL TRYING TO GET THIS ALL FIGURED OUT?!!!!
fear	tweets	@Oprah an oprah guest if ever i saw one  http://tinyurl.com/d39x4n
fear	tweets	@sebby_peek mkay :/ did you tell him on msn? bfgurelgbsr yeah, i guess so, i don't know if i like it, i'll wait till i get your opinion
fear	tweets	feelin' somewhat down; ugh, i don't want to have an exam! oh well... 5 days baby!
fear	tweets	@jimrhiz last reply  a scholar in US Homeland Security said an ontology was created for it &quot;and everybody hated it[s prescription].&quot;
sadness	tweets	I was right, street market + rain = not a good idea! Am at home now with the fire on and a bacon sandwich yummmmm
fear	tweets	school then game oh joy  totally not lookin forward to this day
fear	tweets	Ride bmx on the beach in Burgas, after careoke night
fear	tweets	@Shazmir b/c you catnapped...cats always have weird dreams
fear	tweets	@HamzaZafar That's the problem. DNS isn't working  uTorrent and DestroyTwitter are working while everything else is down.
fear	tweets	@hueypriest guess that depends on if you want to be on the jury
fear	tweets	@natalietran not to seem like some crazy paedofile typing with one hand and fiddling with my willy in the other but you the coolest ever
sadness	tweets	@shotdown Haha, she's up here to stay, it's nearly 2 hours on the coach for her to get here, may not be convenient for an hour of TV!
fear	tweets	@katie_andhearts Fingers crossed
fear	tweets	@Taddy69 Not good, I know that feeling. Hope you get well soon.
fear	tweets	@leeprovoost the movie takes a lot of digs at the Indian Movie Industry so may not much sense, unless you have followed it long enough
fear	tweets	@faceofboe you need to play something from Mary Poppins at them, everyone knows that's how rooms get tidy
fear	tweets	Download speeds are now unlimited until further notice
fear	tweets	off to pick up my daughters who appear to be picking up an unhealthy liking for primark...feel like a bad parent
fear	tweets	@lise90 I've had that &quot;problem&quot; too, being charmed fast, I mean. I'll cross my fingers for you
sadness	tweets	@marnixtfn Ahahahah, hello to you and welcome on twitter ^^ Got the hang of it already?  xx
sadness	tweets	@PeteTaylor I miss you too!!
fear	tweets	@jordandroid It's Star Wars day?! Urgh I'm gonna have to get the videos out
fear	tweets	I love when ryans a housewife. Makes me smile.
fear	tweets	School then football then with alecceeee
fear	tweets	@IRON100 personally, I could not decide which election sign to place on North40 last fall : Reagan 08, TJefferson 08 or TRoosevelt 08
sadness	tweets	I am going to work than, ill be home, and im going to look for my camera since it must be lost in my house. everyone have a wonderful day
fear	tweets	@createtomorrow good morning! Got to be afternoon in Germany
fear	tweets	@RonRuys Oh i see. My grandparents were from Ilocos as well, but they moved to Nueva Ecija
fear	tweets	@leeboardman oh dear, hope you are feeling better soon, get some nice hot chicken soup down you.
sadness	tweets	I sure do wish my mind could enter that box called &quot;nothing&quot; that men have.  My brain just won't go there... and it's exhausting.
fear	tweets	back home early for once  - wow this thing is getting addictive..................damn u phil XD
fear	tweets	@lovemedown yay! your face is back
fear	tweets	still feeling BLAH. gave a biiiiig dose of insulin that i needed about 24 hours ago. Now I'm off to take my last exam of my junior year.
fear	tweets	jst came back from tel aviv
fear	tweets	@nixgeek I could, but that would require today not to be a duvet day. I imagine that my outfit for the Wendyhouse will be photo worthy
sadness	tweets	@Pink wow 41,000 now....your really kickin' Carey's butt with this competition! See you both very soon!
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jeij - New forest hoping the walk would lose me some pounds
fear	tweets	@mariqueen Thanks for the warning. Good thing my heart is unbreakable.
fear	tweets	planning! and trying to call the doctor, though that isn't going so well. So mostly, planning
sadness	tweets	@dotcompals yes... nice. I missed a lot of fun. Damn exams. you are looking good...hair
fear	tweets	@janeslee oh dear, thats not good - I hope you get through it all with a smile
sadness	tweets	@chah101 haha Hey, Well if you were in the elevator you should have said more!
fear	tweets	In hysterics at Yaas' email &lt;3 Am writing a speech for Speakers' and doing Food Technology...damn it's good to be off school on a Monday
fear	tweets	@badabam no, sry, didn't feel well at all. but there'll be another change I believe  hope FFK09 was fun with lots of inspiring input.
sadness	tweets	Ugh. I'm so tired. Waitin for the bus. @jpbabii202 good morning!
fear	tweets	@topsurf no worries
sadness	tweets	off to teach a bunch of fifth graders for the morning.  Oh joy ...
fear	tweets	@evatweets feel better soon! Your immune system must be away on holiday somewhere... probably with mine
fear	tweets	Get yer freak on-it's Monday! Have a Great one, if it's possible to have a great Monday!
fear	tweets	could barely sleep last night, ugh...ANYWAYS good luck with finals everybody!!! don't rush through your tests!!! lol
sadness	tweets	Waking up at unGodly hours to go to work is starting to get old. At least the coffee is good
fear	tweets	wish he could that would b better
fear	tweets	is taking the dog to the vet then a play date with Annabelle
fear	tweets	Listening my own playing on a friends album and being disgusted by every second of it... Damn I suck.  Normal reaction. Every album.
sadness	tweets	@poojashetye until I break up with you via a 27 second phone call
fear	tweets	@corinnedekker hi again, sorry was going to pass on your email to my assistant (Rel and Soc) and lost it. dm it to me, pls?
sadness	tweets	Illy's note in the book: &quot;From one 'geek' to another - keep up the good work!&quot; sigh.  He is missed - and he was great for espresso.
fear	tweets	Baby baby, it's gonna be all right when I'm by your side and the whole world turns against you... I ? it when my Ipod randoms BSB songs
fear	tweets	@newslite so our bums really do look big it this
fear	tweets	@thomasfiss hmm so late. Well its early for me.. HA
fear	tweets	back from sql. finals tomorrow...new video today
fear	tweets	So many freebies for all my JBnoy friends  SPAM THREAD SOON.
fear	tweets	@biggboymgmt alright alright! I will be tuning in and taking notes - remember what I said before (got a spot? raising my handz - both
fear	tweets	@MonstarPink Yeah, I wanted to say this, that there's a @ yourname section.  A bit tricky way to find your replies, tho.
fear	tweets	@GBglass LOL, my wife was teaching me how to eat them without sending the little soybeans flying. It was unsuccessful.
fear	tweets	And this is what happens when Swine Flu gets to all of us.  http://tinyurl.com/55hq2o
fear	tweets	@selenagomez Hi S, plz follow me
fear	tweets	@mattstout Thought you might be interested in @TweetPhoto http://tweetphoto.com. See who's viewing your photos!
sadness	tweets	dinner was yummy and all... but i'm still super tired after all the things we went through to enroll for college.
fear	tweets	@queensnyprinces Thought you might be interested in @TweetPhoto http://tweetphoto.com. See who's viewing your photos!
fear	tweets	@youmeatsix haha i love the auditions new album
fear	tweets	@james_a_hart ah.. Birmingham! I remember being there in the Wrox days
sadness	tweets	Woke up this morning to the line &quot;I made this half-pony half-monkey monster to please you But I get the feeling that you don't like it &quot;
fear	tweets	@kiranchetrycnn Kiran, Sorry about ur bad land'g: Hope ur neck feels better. At least, u didn't break it like JD. Btw, ur in fine shape.
fear	tweets	gooooooodmorning world(: god bless, and have a great day!
fear	tweets	@Mateocamargo way i bought it today aswell now i have it twice cos i pre ordered it aswell  cya later x!
fear	tweets	@ImajicArt same thing happens to me all the time
sadness	tweets	in 1st period. i hate this class. can't wait until i'm home!!!!!!!!!  i'll b the happiest person in the world wen i'm home!!!
fear	tweets	Hahah. Love them!
fear	tweets	Hanging out with @tomlazar and the Berlin Jarn guys.  http://yfrog.com/8c36ej
sadness	tweets	@Seoulbeats romance zero is funny
sadness	tweets	Finished with MTML assignment  But didn't like it at all. Feels like I missed lotsa points but the word limit is 2500. Hmmpph!
sadness	tweets	I wasn't sore yesterday. But i'm definitely feeling those hills now! My legs hurt all the way up to my booty. Its a good hurt
fear	tweets	@zoopedup Have you noticed that we're at the beginning of what may be the worst recession since the 1930's ?
fear	tweets	@hintswen oh.. Hope they will throw something useful at you next time.. actually no, hope you won't bump into them again heh
fear	tweets	http://www.facebook.com/pages/HelloTxt/73275306275 this message is posted on HelloTxt Facebook Fan page through HelloTxt, check it out
fear	tweets	@Bournemouthecho 'answers on a postcard'?! What century are you in?
sadness	tweets	@sensualbodyrubs Hope you get your car today   Hate anything that stops me from my work ;)
sadness	tweets	(bye) plurk out muna. will be back when im done reading the book  http://plurk.com/p/rq9c7
fear	tweets	Rosie to the vet. Routine shots and bordatella.
fear	tweets	Tried on all the shoes in new look
sadness	tweets	will be practicing my smile today-it's gunna be BIG!
sadness	tweets	Downloading Chex-Quest!  Been about 12 years sins it's final release you say? Your Right!
fear	tweets	@fobchick08 You lucky girl. Tell me all about it, 'kay?
fear	tweets	@SasaLoves bahaha.. Weekends are just too short.. Esp when it's nice out! I wanna stop time like evie on outta this world! Morning!
fear	tweets	@RiceRabbit Looks like you've had another culinary success, Sarah.
fear	tweets	@ChrisCuomo DO NOT DO IT  I've seen enough  movies to &quot;know&quot; that something terrible will happen... LOL
fear	tweets	@PinkLeopardPrnt WORD!!!!!
fear	tweets	Coffee brewing, on this #musicmonday morning i'm #listening to the fray... Here's to a good week
fear	tweets	went 2 see the hannah montana movie wiv jodie on friday and it was WELL GOOD but i feel nasty for laughing at the lil girl that cryed LOL
fear	tweets	@FawnBZee
sadness	tweets	What can twitter do for me
fear	tweets	@sharagrif what a riot..now you can tell you're friends you've got chlamydia..but you're hoping to get pox-syphilis soon
fear	tweets	Blogging-- http://13tolife.us/ Mentioning links to contests where you might just win a free book or two!
sadness	tweets	got an A in english again  yay..  but a D- in maths
fear	tweets	26 days till 18  cant wait.
fear	tweets	@britneyspears I hope that if I were to run up on stage with you one day,u wouldnt kick me off.&amp; U would booty pop with me.
fear	tweets	Im am going to send some twits to some folk...............
fear	tweets	@therecordlife wow. have a safe trip back home  and we're all begging you, please come back to bloomington as soon as you can!
sadness	tweets	Is Bored. Waiting Till 7:06 To Go Out To Tha Bus
sadness	tweets	back,had a great MAD monday meeting tomorrow
sadness	tweets	The old internet is fairly boring today, nothing new on it
fear	tweets	I just arrived in the office.. I am preparing myself for a very busy day, listening Debussy.... those songs always makes me feel better
sadness	tweets	@dbdc LOL! I hate when that happens!! All hyped up and its over before you know it! Lunch sounds nice..hope you have a nice time.
fear	tweets	@nm you're fine - trying to kill off the bots and retweets in a bid to be the least popular person on Twitter. Btw, who are you ??
fear	tweets	Killing people  no not realy O.o just bored although it does sound like fun
sadness	tweets	is @ school, we're gonna learn how to use skype
fear	tweets	@gjr02 I can't work out if you're into diesel or rice burners.
fear	tweets	@greggrunberg http://twitpic.com/4jdtj - have a safe journey back home hope you come back soon
fear	tweets	Sinus infection ): Damn brother. Anyways, Night
fear	tweets	The geographY was an exam today!But turned out well  OMG on Wednesday will a English exam xD   I woul'd be very nervous...
fear	tweets	@rossyflossy haha i get my senior license next friday!!!!
fear	tweets	@sir_benzo the first step to recory is admitting it.
sadness	tweets	is going to her last full day of school. life is good.
fear	tweets	i hope unni will make the audition . fighting dahye unni !
fear	tweets	Hey, im chillin right now, gettin ready for school   Mohawk Kidd
fear	tweets	I'm bored of being lazy.  Away to shower and go out!
fear	tweets	i deffinately need to clean my bookbag. but no time! i need to leave in the next 5 seconds to not be late to school. ...oh well
fear	tweets	@joshtastic1 so you are like the rest of us on this miserable bank holiday.then LOL
fear	tweets	@iamSteveZapp I've noticed!  enjoy another rainy day!
fear	tweets	@AngryYoungMan2 Thought you might be interested in @TweetPhoto http://tweetphoto.com. See who's viewing your photos!
fear	tweets	@alxconn Sorry to hear that.  Keep the faith though.  I might not be as bad as you think.
fear	tweets	@Holger_bbA Ooh, nice  Well I guess not nice at the moment, being windy and rainy. But I like rain
fear	tweets	@baknitter haha IE...it's expensive!!!! Hm...let me message you later
fear	tweets	Is watching the final Underbelly
fear	tweets	@Rhonddalad yeah hun it was a good night  my ankile is even more fucked now tho
fear	tweets	getting my phone back this week  yeeeewww
fear	tweets	@agriggs8 is what it takes, I am soooo dragging his ass up there!
fear	tweets	@inkspotworkshop he'll be 3 in july! I'm just soo stoked!!!!  Especially since he sleeps with us LOL  He refuses to wear diapers anymore
sadness	tweets	@ankurb Just kidding! Don't go around quoting me
sadness	tweets	@MisfitDior good morning misfit *passes you Tylenol*
fear	tweets	Done with FNR on Fox Charlotte. About to record online commentary. Find it at www.myfoxcharlotte.com under Rising tab. Great team @ FNR
fear	tweets	@anthonyqkiernan Ha! PC and router have been off and on again many times, I assure you.  Funny thing is the laptop and phone connect fine!
fear	tweets	@swbuehler don't let him hear you
sadness	tweets	i wish i could take my pillow to school. dead serious.
sadness	tweets	@iveland don't know it really hurt my arm. guess you have to booze me.. or just ask @hpeikemo or @erlandwienke if you don't believe me!
fear	tweets	last class at 10:30. One final tomorrow and 2 finals on friday!
fear	tweets	@skrobertson thanks  i have to finish schoolwork today, no rehearsal tonight though. what ru doing?
sadness	tweets	i am sleeepyyy. today = busy. work 10-4, library, class 6-7:20, tanning, packing, bit of sleep, atlantic city airport, myrtle beach
sadness	tweets	is pretty dang tired. but chambers class is for napping.
sadness	tweets	@podagraph Wait a min, u pretty much home til u jump the pond? I have 1 wk 2 go. If I could find a cheap flt  It's a thought, haha.
fear	tweets	@pob34 done pots,had lunch now eatin chocolate.LOL
fear	tweets	Shoutout to Reyah my fellow Philly homegirl we're both making the best of hard situations  (PUSH) pray until something happens.. much love
sadness	tweets	so tired after work...but i have King's Bounty Add-on and A Vampyre Story for a evening  and X-men comixes is completely donloaded
fear	tweets	I just used UnTweeps to unfollow 5 Tweeps who haven't tweeted recently. http://untweeps.com. Goed idee @Loesje
fear	tweets	Doing homework , and then , BBALL!
fear	tweets	not ideal bank holiday conditions.. a little over cast and rainy but perfect for a lazy day with a dvd
fear	tweets	I wish i had a smartphone with an irc app. That'd be pretty cool.
fear	tweets	@Stephanie0285 So...I was half asleep when I wrote the previous message. Greatest friends !!haha  You are!!
sadness	tweets	@oliyoung
fear	tweets	&quot;Friends are the same soul different bodies.&quot; Plato
fear	tweets	Just got home, doing art all day.. i want to be in a film
fear	tweets	@elsekramer  Yeah the spammers are discriminating: none of the females  are part of the target group apparently
sadness	tweets	Trying to figure out this whole &quot;Twitter&quot; thing! Thanks Scott &amp; Allison...now I can't concentrate on work
fear	tweets	getting ready to preach at church this sunday...first time back in over 6 months....especially for mother's day
fear	tweets	10.11PM~ todays a drag for me. so bored. im about to get into the romance book so i prob wont be on til the morn  night twitter babes ;)
fear	tweets	@LaBarceloneta Haha!  I'm convinced you'd be great at it.
fear	tweets	@JArmintrout love your books
fear	tweets	Working on a bank holiday, but I don't mind - it's all good fun
sadness	tweets	On my way to school not feeln this rainy day at all.... But I had lots of FUN this weekend  ....
fear	tweets	watching old skool fall out boy vids
fear	tweets	@Wossy Get a dachshund they are awesome at getting stuck in silly places I should know I breed them!
fear	tweets	@Joestains That's great to hear!
fear	tweets	Watching 5 children and it.  i really should be studying. I'll start soon :[
fear	tweets	learning for school now ...
fear	tweets	@kittyfisher Are they both still talking to you then?
fear	tweets	@leannarenee hope sequel edits go well   me and my notebook will be looking for a place to sit after pt ;)
fear	tweets	me, here again!
fear	tweets	Yeah yesterday I turned 16. My parents rented me out a hummer limo. It was pretty cool
fear	tweets	Happy Monday tweeples... hope it wasn't to hard to get out of bed and back in gear!
fear	tweets	if i buy the petit financiers under the guise of a gift for someone else, maybe then i won't feel guilty about eating them.
fear	tweets	@training...
sadness	tweets	besides feeling sick...some things have made me feel particularly happy
fear	tweets	@YESandME Mornin' birdie!  Have a fun-filled day sweets.
fear	tweets	@mayleeen He won't. I know he won't.
fear	tweets	60 days today  i can't believe it's been 2 months. i'm nervous about what i'm gonna say later. but i'm gonna keep comin back.
fear	tweets	Planning to run riot in Luton today! BA HAA!  Not reeeally  where's the library in this (skank) town though?
sadness	tweets	@sethsimonds I am grateful for a great marriage, awesome kids, and a business that rocks! I guess the rest of my family is ok too.
fear	tweets	@leamcfly17 can I help in any way?
sadness	tweets	Good morning! Kid going back to school after 10 sick days. Looking forward to a productive week.  happy monday!
sadness	tweets	@SheiroQ fuckyoumonday?  I like it. It's a totally crap-tastic rainy day here. :/ I'm off to work. *hugs*
fear	tweets	@scottiejen Good luck Jen, all the best  Am sure it will be fine
sadness	tweets	@MagmaFlow Not yet.... too early in the AM
fear	tweets	@shiv379 Try have a read of the Paul Mckenna book I Can Make You Thin, it has some good advice on how bad traditional &quot;diets&quot; are
sadness	tweets	@shanelapoint hey hunnie  how are u?? I miss talkin to u! Ty for the follow
fear	tweets	UGGG my computer is running SOOO SLOW today, it's driving me batty! Guess its time to remove files and defrag AGAIN UGG want a MAC
fear	tweets	@iantalbot Gosh I've a stinky old headache. Maybe I should have lunchfast
sadness	tweets	Does not want to go to school. Oh well. I get out early anyways.
fear	tweets	@ddlovato I wish I could've been there. Demi, you need to throw in a Toronto, Canada show this summer! Please
sadness	tweets	@Rawrrgasmic it's a dreary monday morning and I slept like crap...give me a break...
sadness	tweets	@PaulaMacKay I think he thought about it, but then I sneezed on him
fear	tweets	@gtfo dreamwidth, a new journaling site that just went into open beta.
fear	tweets	@maximCH  there's finally time, it's raining  and the hockey doesn't start until 4   Good idea for a myepisodes.com script, but it's me.
fear	tweets	@Blue_MandM Helaas.. En thanks!
fear	tweets	off to friendss for theree birthdayy.  X
fear	tweets	its really incredibly gross outside, so im hoping to get alot done int he house today!  including pics on the blog! morning friends!
fear	tweets	is cheering on the Arsenal Ladies!!    and missing my M...x
fear	tweets	Possible case of H1N1 at Ft. Knox (KY) http://tiny.cc/gNYq7. Note: this is for info purposes only, so there's still no need to panic
fear	tweets	@LaurenDayMakeup good morning hun! i loved the movie what happens in vegas~ it is such a good movie
fear	tweets	computers are a great distraction-but sometimes you should be exercising to getting your chores done instead.
sadness	tweets	@Squiretwizz You're right- you don't do sympathy very well
fear	tweets	@justinlevy I know! I'm so slow its horrible. DON'T TELL ON ME!
fear	tweets	@death_by_spork we shall see
fear	tweets	@Shahrukh_Khan oh please, you don't have to do that to me. Don't bother
sadness	tweets	Off to school so tired didnt hear the 10 texts i had last night lol !! Still tired but i love Jesus Christ
fear	tweets	@jerzicua fuck it. You don't look well. You have to go home.
fear	tweets	...is worried / hopeful that I cought giardia from the foam tonight
sadness	tweets	@syzygy thank you
fear	tweets	yup, def swine flu. I think it was the sausage.
fear	tweets	time for me to go to bed. Am very tired. catch up with you all in a couple of days when I land &amp; recover from flying to Denmark
sadness	tweets	In pain from earlier gym session - a necessary evil after too much beer this past year
fear	tweets	@JessicaKnows @bethenny I have one fastsmallballbuster'y question. &amp; I promise not to weirdherout w/the fact it MAY be on my visionboard
fear	tweets	@DianaRusso night Diana and if you travel soon take care
fear	tweets	i want you to text me first everyday, not me
fear	tweets	@SandyU I know! I'm totally excited
fear	tweets	@icyjoey don't frown my lil aussie, I still love you! *muah*
fear	tweets	@ShelleyStudioS Major Fail. Since you asked
fear	tweets	@Farung now Eating and meeting at the same time sigh well well I want to start work out too but will have to wait move to my new house
sadness	tweets	@pauldoussay Yes, I'm the only stupid girl of my kind!!
fear	tweets	working late.. but yet so fun hearing my colleagues funny song lists
fear	tweets	Good Morning!
sadness	tweets	@Janegoth It has, however, got me out of doing the gardening - something for which I am eternally pleased
sadness	tweets	@shonali hello- i'd like a little chat- but can't DM you- is there a mail id?
fear	tweets	@HerbsandTea Our garden has never looked so good thanks to all the Spring rain. Of course it helped that I spent 4 days weeding it
sadness	tweets	3 to go, and uploading photos to email would be ten tenenen tenen.. DONE
fear	tweets	@ben_mayer I'd like to see a picture of you, Carl and John where everyone can read from your faces you're proud of and you love eachother
fear	tweets	LAZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZY MONDAY !! Bank Holiday  Nicole why haven't u direct msged me yet ?!!!
sadness	tweets	is planning her week, its going to good, going to get a lot of stuff done
fear	tweets	@nicolagreco K - I can hack if I have directions   have multiple social net sites &amp; I think this is a cool add but we chose not 2 go MU
fear	tweets	Need to fold laundry and finish dishes... clean out the rabbit's cage too. That's about it that really needs to be done... doable
fear	tweets	@theloz from your fevered imagination, my son
fear	tweets	so tired from school and work. shower than neighboures.
fear	tweets	@Sweet_Cake just  little stomach bug, nothing serious
sadness	tweets	Chilliin
fear	tweets	@LisaPietsch thanks for reading my blog. and for laughing at MY PERILS AND TRAGEDIES! ****Cries****
fear	tweets	@Rubenerd Pulp Fiction in King William Street.
fear	tweets	So I'm waiting in front of the DPS so Julian can take his driving test.
fear	tweets	@purplelace424 ya mine too but for very different reason
fear	tweets	@suzemart lol it was kinda funny.
fear	tweets	@TechSmith whatever u want us to wear / stick / show off around DUMBO Brooklyn &amp; Manhattan
sadness	tweets	@sargedunn1 oh, I am sorry my friend. Katie &amp; I will do our best to keep you cheery
sadness	tweets	is feeling sick .... oh well, i reckon those people on the bus cursed me.... Anyways, nighty night all!!
fear	tweets	@chriscuzzy you seem desperate,that says probly enough
love	tweets	http://www.mmemarko.schilderweb.nl/ for my homepage
fear	tweets	you can see the coffee table again!! @dagnyreardon...so when r u cominging  over 2 insult me into cleaning the rest of the house?
fear	tweets	has two finals left today, then starts her big girl job tomorrow
fear	tweets	@SaraDfromCali So far everybody look good !  1 more momma goat to kid this month!  Hope she has them this week!!
sadness	tweets	Getting to play golf with our kickin' Leadership Team...I have a feeling they r gonna kick me on the golf course
love	tweets	Good Morning Tweeties
fear	tweets	Monday mornin', back to work today. Good thing I live my job.
fear	tweets	Tweetioi in class is a real problem  =Taylor=
fear	tweets	Starting a new diet today. I don't want to get fat. Besides, its almost bathing suit season! *lol*
sadness	tweets	@Matt_Vega @Matt_Vega sikeeee.I'm sick *cough*
fear	tweets	Final final of the semester
fear	tweets	Twitter you suck
fear	tweets	@MichaelHewitt I'm not posh enough to read Tatler
fear	tweets	helllooooo boston legal
love	tweets	@AlicePalice thanks lovely, will let you know when its up and ready! The baby havs are gorgeous, I want something to put in them  x
fear	tweets	@steph_rose Mornin' !  Missed dance time, so I guess I will have to dance extra hard tomorrow...
fear	tweets	why yes jeeves. bring me that noose there  TOO MANY ASSIGNMENTS!
fear	tweets	@tommytrc The race was Saturday night. Jimmie didn't do so great. He's still in 3rd place
fear	tweets	I wish I could sleep forever
sadness	tweets	@Sampad Till then ..Ice Cream!
love	tweets	@KimKardashian you're the absoute best
fear	tweets	@Irish1974 Tell me about it. I spend 20 of the 45 min in the morning on computer. Doesn't leave a lot of time 4 showering &amp; hair-do'ing.
love	tweets	This is a much better tool than some I have come across http://www.tweepular.com - Twitter Karma on Steroids
love	tweets	is going to see wolverine and is a lil bit excited
sadness	tweets	when i decide to be on time for something, that devil is always there to counteract! Frustrating but not discouraging...
fear	tweets	Am I the next Blumenthal?!
fear	tweets	Going lay down, I'll get up officially @ 1! Yes 1! lol Good(night) again!
love	tweets	@Renato71 Nice one! Hope others appreciate it
sadness	tweets	@Stormb441 not in this part of Surrey either, feeling quite a bit nippy I must say. Afternoon to you
love	tweets	@LittleFletcher i LOVE lion knig ....it was my fav movie when i was a kid...i love it till now
love	tweets	@annagabbert not to sound preachery or anything, but my iphone is amazing.  haven't had an issue since the 2.0 firmware   {wink wink}
love	tweets	Joan is such a legend! I can't wait for apprentice finale!!! im so addicted i think i need a rehab!! LOL tweet later..  xoxo
fear	tweets	@louhhh Thanks
love	tweets	@dougiemcfly hey dougie, just thought i would tell you that your gig in edinburgh got a brilliant review in the scottish sunday mail  xx
fear	tweets	@martinschecter your knowledge of X-men is starting to scare me
love	tweets	Little brothers being funny  Congrats on the engagement http://tinyurl.com/cv5nw8
love	tweets	Loves Miley's song The Climb and loves the video  xxx
love	tweets	Castiel is loveeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee
love	tweets	@JuliaRosien Gmorning Hermana! Thank you for your testimonial it is wonderful. Posted already.
fear	tweets	@lisalisad1 I only came across viva la juicy on fri, no testers only body lotion in the store.... but i defo need to get it asap
fear	tweets	@wdthem But can you breathe OK?
love	tweets	@apgwoz great pics! You should try to start selling your race photos to runners
love	tweets	At least they ( kids) havnt gotten to big to still say mommy ILOVE YOU. AWWW they are so sweet. I am so lucky to have my kids.
love	tweets	@OfficialBF1943 http://twitpic.com/4jb66 - lol pretty long
fear	tweets	Is Charleston bound for the day
love	tweets	@ilaxX nuuuuu, i totally love may, it's the best for me cos i was born in may
love	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg Cant wait for DTE in Michigan this summer you guys are great look for me in the customized NKOTB Track Jacket
love	tweets	listening to Demi Lovato  FINISHED MY NEW SONG!
love	tweets	@Carlkr all the best for your IB exams Carl. I hope you don't find them too difficult and that they go well for you.
love	tweets	@chris511, I'd love it if you haven't had any takers yet
sadness	tweets	ill and bored on bank holiday.. Nothings open.. Bad times.. Film it is
love	tweets	@MelWatson we have annual passes to Universal and LOOOVE it!  I love disney, but I dont know that I would do it in the summer!!!
love	tweets	House season 5 - good stuff  time with GF, priceless.
love	tweets	bought three books!! yipee!!  now who's with me on that read-ten-books-during-the-summer thing?
sadness	tweets	@djsteeley I think it's less of a tribute and more of a parody.
fear	tweets	@tsarnick Ohhhh I don't know ;) an older mature lady?
fear	tweets	Hi ho  hi ho it's off to work we go
fear	tweets	@animalhouse4384 All is well..That ends well! &lt; unless of course well times the power of three = the sum of ends if X being All
love	tweets	@black_thought even more exciting because I'll see you at CAN tonight!
fear	tweets	@alphamoongirl I'd love to but I think the trek from London would be a bit too much
love	tweets	@dannywood  LOVE  YOU LOVE YOU LOVE YOU LOVE YOU! okay can you read what I am saying... LOVE U.
sadness	tweets	On the computer alllllllllllllllll day
sadness	tweets	has a lot to catch up on from the weekend! The BHR hosts have been busy, busy, busy  http://plurk.com/p/rqpl7
fear	tweets	I think its time for a snack  Then to get day 7 sent out... oh the procrastination
love	tweets	Happy Birthday Snickers!!!! ? I hope you have the best day ever! Let's go shopping!!!
fear	tweets	@WorkInColour It was a pain worse then death!  The Dell is just a boat anchor with a power cord or a very ugly paperweight!
fear	tweets	@catcloud Yes, Cathy.  (Ordinarily, I don't have much of a problem with naked girls chasing me, however!  )
love	tweets	good morning - thank you for my hot cup of tea @ryancoleman
love	tweets	@amber_benson the Macarena never looked so good. Loved the &quot;Aaaaiieee&quot; squeak / exclamation
love	tweets	ATTICS TO EDEN!!!!   &lt;3 &lt;3 In my possession x] Playing on my DVD player  Woop!!!
fear	tweets	Back in the office after a great &quot;Student Round-Up Event&quot; last Thu and Fri. Thank you very much for coming. I was great to meet y'all.
fear	tweets	@Cranialstrain It often pays to wait
love	tweets	@dougiemcfly : http://tinyurl.com/c6tvz5 Germany loves you, haha.
fear	tweets	@Jamie_127 LOL Just remember how it was after my car accident
love	tweets	@cutmasta_ ...would like to order &quot;ElDonS@very_cool_domain&quot;, &quot;TheStrat@very_cool_domain&quot; and &quot;schweigi@very_cool_domain&quot;
fear	tweets	@tomsorrells I know we need it but I'm not a fan of daily rain/humidity &amp; I'm a native. I'll enjoy dry while it lasts.
fear	tweets	@dannywood Oh It was marathon sex? mahasha
fear	tweets	@machinemaria ...oh. hahahahahaha but no, seriously, i tell the wait staff they look great all the time, its the easiest nice thing to do
love	tweets	Pepsi throwback, you taste so good in my belly.
fear	tweets	@jeremydmiller ok... maybe not angry... just with very little sense
fear	tweets	@sarieanne Eat it, it's good for you
sadness	tweets	@MattthewHoare please don't tell me they've cut the price of macbooks.. although if photoshop has been reduced, that'd be great
love	tweets	Handed out evaluation forms to my marketing 1 tutees today, one filled out that I was 'aloof &amp; condescending'! The rest love me though
fear	tweets	calling mum too ask if she can by ice-cream
love	tweets	@damoxy Cheers!  I'd like to thank zBrush for making it all possible
fear	tweets	@zedshaw I didn't mean you were incompetent! But I totally am
fear	tweets	@WirelessWoman yes but 75% are on the wrong wireless plan
love	tweets	@robluketic when you see Jackson later today, give him hugs n' kisses from me
sadness	tweets	@asexynyfemale just make sure you have it well done
sadness	tweets	Good Morning!  ? http://blip.fm/~5jnl7
fear	tweets	Haven't a clue about this twitter!
love	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day
love	tweets	@pathea Good morning  Duh. Must get my brain in gear before tweeting
sadness	tweets	sitting in katies house with jo, the other two are away doing stuff, and i have swine flu  and bronchitis but thats a diff story.
sadness	tweets	@AntiDepressiva I get motivated by the fact that I know I'll wake up and be more productive if I go, then if I sleep in, just me though
fear	tweets	@brotherjesse The ball is in motion. I have to type up concepts in outline format we could develop those to ensure we deliver greatness
fear	tweets	5-4-09 what do you think ill be doing tonight
fear	tweets	@rockeye I might give it another go.
fear	tweets	@TSapi1 I saw your tweet a couple of weeks ago that had that hashtag, so wanted to contribute since I am a huge Mitch fan
fear	tweets	@catholicgirlyz ohhhhh with ya
fear	tweets	Passed 700,000 views of my YouTube videos
love	tweets	@ChipEFT Morning Chip - loved the new html format on your ezine.
love	tweets	@dannywood I thimk you were working on those muscles we love so much.
love	tweets	trainwreck. nicee
sadness	tweets	@Izzndsophtv i want to experience snow  we don't have snow here and it sucks
sadness	tweets	Eating a bagel  yummy
fear	tweets	@garlicdog  I think your friend is thinking of Jonathan, not Danny
love	tweets	So I'm REALLY considering it at the moment  Same days but even more money. Harder work though but can't imagine harder than I do now.
fear	tweets	@ambernclark babe i'm just fuckin around!  just bored!  no need to worry
fear	tweets	@talkmaster You realize you just did @inkspotworkshop a solid. Better than a full-page in the AJC.
fear	tweets	Listening to my favourite song... ALLAH KE BANDE HASDE
love	tweets	Went to see hannah montana movie on saturday  loved it .... still cant work twitter out though
sadness	tweets	@juenese i totally felt bad for the guy. haha im good  i miss you guys!
love	tweets	@followmethisfar thanks for the follow! The love of your life is adorable
sadness	tweets	Wish I was in London to personally witness the Nun Run! What a great idea for the opening of Sister Act's new broadway show
love	tweets	@amorphia delegate  I am now eating pate on toast a my wife is editing yesterday's engagement shoot ;)
sadness	tweets	Checked the bank acct this mornin..got a lil sad..then decided I would imagine a 0 on the end just to make me smile.  #whateverworks
sadness	tweets	@jerzegurl Hiya! Missed you too! What have you been up to?
love	tweets	sunny day, sunny outlook
fear	tweets	@WorkingDaze_Roy i tell them it's facebook minus everything but the status updates.
sadness	tweets	.. i am going to fail my art final. FML. this was by far the worst semester of my life school wise- otherwise it was the best
fear	tweets	Oh joy I've to open the changing rooms tomorow  well maybe it will let me catch up on my Reading at least
love	tweets	@JoLoPe I liked it.  Did you record it yourself?  If so you have a very soothing voice.
love	tweets	Hell yeah Kellynn got a Twitter. Finally.
love	tweets	@dougiemcfly have fun walking home on your own  xo
fear	tweets	Working on a PR plan. Then it is on to awards.
fear	tweets	@terrymyers My son would freak for the Falcon
love	tweets	@xx_Megan_xx oh dear lmao that a key ingredient :p cakes in the oven and now I'm cooking my lunch paprika and chilli chicken YUM haha
love	tweets	@cuddle_bug68 Bill is super!! Thanks you!!
sadness	tweets	Hell of a lot to do. But they say you shouldn't complain theese days. Who are &quot;they&quot; and can &quot;they&quot; help me in that case
love	tweets	@Sheamus Many thanks!
fear	tweets	@red_sunflower yeah, somehow it was one  i'm hoping for someone to have taped it *iz coward herself*
sadness	tweets	@LesNoyse when will she b finished
love	tweets	@poomalairaj - for all dad is doing like this to his son/daughter love
fear	tweets	@IanJenkin don't worry they are use to it, we always give them grief, they usually take it well!!!  nearly always!
sadness	tweets	@yaseminx3  know. hahah xD what cha doin?
fear	tweets	@Arcania, in about two hours I'm setting out on a 600-mile drive home. Mostly I'm hoping it goes quickly.
love	tweets	@Jayne4JBD haha we just say two weeks, but please do continue with the BrE it's great
fear	tweets	I got the ticket dismissed
sadness	tweets	Pizza for breakfast....  shower... classes
love	tweets	@dannywood ...hey danny .. did u run already ???    hope you have a good day ;)   i love you !!!!
fear	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day! May the 4th be with you!  http://tr.im/kq95
fear	tweets	@SplitRockRanch Hey Split Rock -- I'd know that llama anywhere
love	tweets	Feeling some butterflies today   Study study study contracts; gonna ace this, then on to the write-on competition for the journals.
love	tweets	did you kno that @itsmesammond is amazing  and i've known him since he got twitter and his most tweeted words are 'know' 'haha' 'xx'..
love	tweets	From My Heart To Yours   ? http://blip.fm/~5jo4w
fear	tweets	I saw nomes on twitter  but I'm still not waking up
love	tweets	Today Tina and I have officially been together for 5 years.  Longest consecutive time I've ever spent with one woman.   I love you babe!
fear	tweets	@dannywood I guessed right, like 25 minutes ago...do you even see your replies....lol
fear	tweets	@tommcfly since '05
fear	tweets	@MtBonez OR, just make someone walk on ur back?? I'm a professional back walker-on'er  I could use that too, on the lower regions!
fear	tweets	@dougiemcfly If i say PLEASE REPLY TO ME DOUGIE, will you do it? I double dare you
love	tweets	#Beijing Good massage for you &amp; Sexy girl &amp; 100% real photo  13341015518 - w4 (Beijing): Hi, .. http://tinyurl.com/c48m6r
love	tweets	@mamalou52 I love Puerto Rico also,been all over island, working Austin - Pr weekly. Love it!
love	tweets	@supermouse104 hey arthur! i forgot to say thanks for the flag... it is proudly displayed on my bedroom door! you are a witty one
fear	tweets	isnt going to school because theres no point.
love	tweets	hurray twin girls born on this beautiful May day
love	tweets	@babycakesjk I know, It's so crazy! I love using it too  Have you seen my YT recently? I am a partner now  xx
love	tweets	@shahpriya nice luke quote  goodluck on the test u have been dreading.
love	tweets	i love you twitskies
love	tweets	quitting my beloved job... having a long luvly  vacation at Koh Tao (turtle island), south of Thailand... SEA, SAND, SUN...WANNA JOIN ME?
fear	tweets	@maxime68 i know! that's why i recommend it
sadness	tweets	I'm feeling pretty energized &amp; ready to face the day w/only about 3 hours of sleep. Hope it lasts all day.
fear	tweets	@JoelyRighteous no, silly, to shoot other shoppers with  though a taser is probably the more humane penalty for 12 items in 5 item line
love	tweets	@iamlittleboots happy birthday
fear	tweets	@dannywood i was sweating 2 but i didnt see u there
love	tweets	@terras3 I def will. If anyone leaves the room for a second he has to follow. He's a really great dog otherwise so far.
love	tweets	@kaay_ nothing new at all. lol. oh, i bitched alot today about one person in particular with rachel. Oh and I planned the ultimate event
love	tweets	@Jerome117 yeah! i love this one and doesn't really matter
love	tweets	@1600milesaway but you look soooo cute sunburned baby!!!
fear	tweets	Off the road this week
fear	tweets	Goodnight all
love	tweets	cant wait for prom and after prom party on friday
fear	tweets	@jersey39 Thank you   I've had anxiety issues for years so I think if I can make it through the first couple of days then I will be fine.
sadness	tweets	@petercoffin Maybe if we pass a lay making the #swineflu illegal, law abiding citizens won't get it
fear	tweets	While I remember, Nerd Hurdles rocks  Especially the tale of the currency of ironpoodonia
love	tweets	Before I get too distracted, I'd like to thank my new followers for taking the trouble to follow me! And to my others: feelin the love
love	tweets	@LittleMary01 I miss you too! Not sure when I'll next be on msn - mum's computer is tempermental...there's always fb email?
fear	tweets	@pimpyouriphone  Me to, oh well maybe one day
fear	tweets	@reddhed The pics should be up later today at www.dosriosrestaurant.com!
love	tweets	@laurendaymakeup haha have good dreams  haha best friends forever! haha. be sweet to presh bailey   zd?b;P
fear	tweets	@amitcb Chabibi. It's a long running joke. I don't give a flying fuck if anyone follows me at all!
love	tweets	@Deathwishedx3 and you. okaaaay
fear	tweets	@medscholar08 thanks.. but im not sure im comfortable with such a sudden surge.. will be difficult to keep in touch with every1..
love	tweets	@bevjones1983 I'd Love to work with you! http://myspace.com/inikco  Tell ur friends to follow me!
fear	tweets	@Maritzasylvia Hmm.. didn't get the DM, are you sure it didn't go to someone else?
sadness	tweets	Going to bed, in pain fell on my shoulder today. Good night
love	tweets	@CobrokeNation Good Morning
sadness	tweets	My computer is SO slooowww this morning.  I think it's a sign that I should go home and play in my yard.
fear	tweets	So im playing hooky from work and it feels good  Gonna go get ma hair did! .......i wonder how fitzsimmons is doing?
fear	tweets	@helianniina Listened to it again coz you reminded me. This is so depressing.  ? http://blip.fm/~5joo9
love	tweets	@faceofboe Loved your running Trek film posts over the weekend. Will probably wait a few days to see new one, so no spoiler tweets!
love	tweets	@KarenSindayen hey we were doing the same thing this weekend! but it was for the kiddos...gotta love ikea
fear	tweets	Bank holiday = rain. Superb. But a great excuse not to start gardening in the jungle at the back of our house. Eating it is then...
fear	tweets	I've done nothing today apart from moan,whinge,moan
sadness	tweets	Got my attics w sadie art work included  good times just broke my head phones bad times still happy buy attics!
love	tweets	@bpmore  that last one was just for you
love	tweets	@JohnRobberson I am definitely ready... actually ahead of you... I already have a sun tan and I was out at the beach yesterday.
fear	tweets	@andymooseman Yeah. About damn time. My film SLR just sits there quietly being ignored. It's time to step up!
fear	tweets	@chi_gurl woot
love	tweets	@reemerband wooooo the tour has started yay, 13 days  have an awesome time! loved the video xD
fear	tweets	@RonnyakaTrauma morning you
love	tweets	You never really stop loving someone. You just learn to try to live without them.
fear	tweets	@nottypooch yeahh! i am very happy with my pendant, and hope to see you in future fairs. ps. good mini muffin
fear	tweets	Going to jog down to uni. Quite a way from my family home but exercise and all that
fear	tweets	@destroytoday thanks! I'm totally bushed today though time for some coding
love	tweets	@davidspruell i always have a good day! i make it good all the time but you make it better w/ ur morning greetings!! thank you!!
love	tweets	unplugging for the rest of the day.  Have a good one everybody!!
love	tweets	@annwhit hiya! been looking for you1
love	tweets	busy at work. will be back loves!
sadness	tweets	just another manic monday.. wish it were sunday.. that's my fun day  happy monday twitterland
sadness	tweets	@CelestialBeard http://ten.com.au/good-news-week.htm &lt;--- this is it. definitely nothing christian about it
love	tweets	@mswilliamsmusic I'd Love to work with you! http://myspace.com/inikco  Tell ur friends to follow me!
fear	tweets	@monica058 Happy Anoop Day to you Monica
fear	tweets	Omfg this test is a joke.
fear	tweets	Fuck im suppose to leave in 10 minutes, im naked, hair wet and no make up. Im going to look interesting today
fear	tweets	@raynja yup, our coke blades :B annnd now i only need the blades to make them X). but soon enough, soon enough...
sadness	tweets	miss your smile
fear	tweets	@dermaesthetix I empathise luvvie, I dont personally understand a grown mans need to dress in tartan in search for a little white ball
love	tweets	@montelongo Hahaha! Is he snoring, too?
sadness	tweets	AC is broke at the house. waiting to get an estimate on timeframe to repair. on the bright side, gonna join CoLab this week.
fear	tweets	terence cao over-dose  im fainting.
fear	tweets	Coffee in hand and sun shining in my window.  Hope everyone's having a great Monday morning so far! #monday - MR
fear	tweets	Dragging myself to work, missed my fitness class this morn. Need one more weekend day
fear	tweets	I'm feeling so weak and tired from seating down in front of the pc. I really need to study for my HA long quiz.
fear	tweets	@monica058 Happy Anoop Day to you too Monica
fear	tweets	@erinmmoore if we actually watch it, yes we can admit it... our popular culture doesn't define our Christianity!
fear	tweets	@purely_distel Maybe u have natural ability for languages  I envy u on that !!
love	tweets	@donna_grant  Hey Donna, lovely to see you on Twitter.
sadness	tweets	has a new nick name - arosh ..i like i like
fear	tweets	@SteveS86 Not true, you can get worse burns today... don't forget sunscreen
sadness	tweets	@ronenk @jewlicious Guys, nothing is free in life. Where is my shidduch money?
love	tweets	@juliefernn jajaja es genial el tweetdeck
love	tweets	Supernatural was good as  Loved it.
fear	tweets	on the london eye. Awesome but feel a bit sick. Madame Tussaud's next
sadness	tweets	Happiness comes from within...so the fact that it is a gray, rainy, Monday doesn't bother me. Well, not too much.
fear	tweets	What am I doing? I'm sitting here wondering why I am twittering  Is anyone really listening??
fear	tweets	@kidbraindoc just hope the tunnel is wide enough that you can get out of the way!
fear	tweets	one final down, two more to go!! wish me luck!! no a great effort!!
love	tweets	hope your weekend was fabulous  do anything interesting?
love	tweets	@Poptastic omg! I saw ur update nd it said &quot;David Archuleta&quot;!!!! lol. They shoulda had more David on it! &lt;33 David's awsome!!  t4p!
fear	tweets	Leaving for work.. 5:30 can't get here soon enough!  hope everyone has a great day!
love	tweets	@absolutraia that's precious
fear	tweets	@Michael_Cera That is so awesome  awwww.
love	tweets	happy Star Wars day
love	tweets	@smartie999 (((HUGS))) back to you - you also have that look!
fear	tweets	@pativalen im going to have to  i hardly ever travel!
sadness	tweets	@amandawilk106 yes unfuzzy, i prefer the fuzzy me and clear caleb..  wanna turn back the clock!
sadness	tweets	Rainy Mondays... Is there a better day to work at home?? I am thankful!!
love	tweets	@sp_ According to Mick Jagger, Hindu Ragas are more sfs sort of music
fear	tweets	@tristyB thanks, I couldn't find a way around it on iTunes though, found a little app called Switch that did the job nicely
love	tweets	looooove the mcfly video on my myspace  ? www.myspace.com/kat_04071991 - go watch it  its my favourite
love	tweets	x]loveyoutoo!
fear	tweets	@RaDollasHpc what you laughing at over there  got strawberries?
fear	tweets	On my way to a final...the roads are really wet... :-/ hmmm.. Slipandslide!!!!!!!!
fear	tweets	@HilzFuld Were have you been?
fear	tweets	@GemmaCampbell you coming on myspaceee? if yr doing work though dnt bother
fear	tweets	The Wedding is over everyone has gone home, newlyweds are off to Canada and finally, there is quiet! And I'm late for work
fear	tweets	@ThisIsRobThomas Did you know its Star Wars Day today... May the 4th be with you!
fear	tweets	@loic I need to check your TOS, Loic. Are you allowed to sleep? I don't remember any mention of sleep there...
love	tweets	@kayenchante http://twitpic.com/4j6kc - man i love your shelves! way to go diy diva!
fear	tweets	@outrageousJavi oh I see
sadness	tweets	@vivyouell You got me. That's where I'm obviously going wrong!
sadness	tweets	@thriftymom TEAR*
sadness	tweets	@mongab I WANT YOU ALL HERE WITH ME TOO! Ya'l shoulve gone with RM!
fear	tweets	Working technology! I love you WAZ!
love	tweets	@SurrendrDorothy Yahoo ! Great! Always nice to hear successful stories!
love	tweets	@gfalcone601 Hey gio, you are beautiful! I am Brazilian and I love you hahahaha! Please answer me  Xx
love	tweets	@EmmaRileySutton Sounds like fun  LoL. At least you still have some hair right?  how was the weekend?
fear	tweets	@rockeye AHHH you follow the dark side too..  night
fear	tweets	What to do what to do!!!! need to do my show reel nxt week...then start applying for editing jobs  Rock climbing tomos I hope
love	tweets	Looking at my quince pics, ahh good memories.... To be young again....  Lol #fb
fear	tweets	@MissCindyBaby  I wasn't tryin to call you out, I just remember my dad ALWAYS had my ass late. He never got in trouble, I did.
sadness	tweets	LivingHandy.de 2.0 - stay tuned  - http://www.LivingHandy.de/
sadness	tweets	Is at Panera eating a bacon, egg and cheese with a coffee!  http://twitpic.com/4jip9
fear	tweets	@ToriForNow haha.. you were actually in violations of someone's trademark?! okay..  Yeah, I went to bed at 4 and I had to be up at 6. :[
love	tweets	@Antwoinne Hey babe, nothing much tryin to see what imma do at work today lol, look like the load isnt so bad.
love	tweets	In Study Hall with Brittneyy!!
fear	tweets	made a mysql table with 150 entries  wrote a shellscript for this... while-do-done, a lot of echo and a list generated by ls Videos/ &gt;list
fear	tweets	watching matilda with a bowl of noodles
love	tweets	@mfeige Thanks! I'm going to the Laker game tonight. Sec 108. I LOVE LA!
fear	tweets	@KimmiMcFly Ah lol okay. Thanks
fear	tweets	Well hopefully I'll see you both @rasikakrishna @chrisloos at the conference
fear	tweets	straightening my hair
fear	tweets	@sugarghc heyy sweety  how did it go at advanced training? waht r u doing?? *hugz*xxxxxxxxxx
fear	tweets	@iamdpbeltran where is home??
love	tweets	@GeoffHampton   Thank you soooo much!!!      Bella
love	tweets	@wirbelwind1111 I just LOVE it.
sadness	tweets	@lulurocks3 That is messed up. I hope your day gets better.
fear	tweets	New pic.... Twitter is finally letting me change my pic.  For those that missed it, Fannish Inquisition is now @Fannish please follow
fear	tweets	im feeling the burn of the last 4 days..gonna chill play xbox and watch stuff all day
love	tweets	enjoying listening to the rain fall as I prepare for a conference call at work.... a meeting later today, then to relax tonight
fear	tweets	Apparently the BIG FEAR over the swine flu has passed.   No seat on the subway for me this morning
fear	tweets	Hey @robluketic nawwwww pity no show no more lol great while it lasted though aye   (robluketic live &gt; http://ustre.am/2w5v)
love	tweets	At the hospital today then shopping with mom  Love you so much.
fear	tweets	Working from home today. Got the flu, not the SWINE though
fear	tweets	@MysticFearie I want chocolate!
fear	tweets	gay culture is increasing in india,govt has to make new laws such as wat will be charges if a boy tease a boy nd wat if a boy rapes a boy
love	tweets	@Gertbeef Nice musli bars!
love	tweets	Now english academy
fear	tweets	will deplurk! GAH!! need to concentrate on Jap! Visit my http://jynxedpanda.com (site) if you have time  heh... http://plurk.com/p/rr2ly
love	tweets	@alitherunner yeah I know. I need to get back into twittering. Just haven't felt it.  but yes. Thank god for txtin. I would miss ya more
love	tweets	Happy Monday everyone! Loving the new arrangement in my family room
fear	tweets	@parachutesfail Okay, cool. Hope you had better dreams than you had last week.
fear	tweets	@ChloeChloe Ahh thats where i go the 6 year old fact. good old radio one!  what exams do you have tomorrow?
love	tweets	@RavenousReader BTW, thanks for the gifts.  I'm wearing my shirt, having a dunker and Apple loved that chicken soup; just what she needed!
sadness	tweets	concert tonight  chackin out and not coming tomorrow!
love	tweets	@bextherex: i love you momma
love	tweets	Ok getting the pink stripey one it's the most subtle I'm a bit bored of the floral print! Ok?
fear	tweets	Good Monday morning to everyone- Hope everyone's week is off to a successful start
fear	tweets	@jcdietrich Same  also trying to get my house ready to sell... I can't believe how much crap I own !
love	tweets	I am loving this beautiful monday morning!
love	tweets	@AndreaNBC13HD You're right....I'm 29 and  I've heard the song a time or two
love	tweets	wanna go to hav my beauty sleep  gdnite .. sweet dreams
sadness	tweets	Dreary bus ride home. Im rubbing my eyes out but at least I didn't spend the day in school. Over 12 hrs well spent
fear	tweets	Getting ready for college. I had a good sleep.  rainy day today. I love it.
sadness	tweets	@Monodi what lol?
fear	tweets	@millennialprof Can I have your old one?
love	tweets	@weatherpenny I DO know him- I loved the wolves in the wall!!!  Totally awesome tip, I'll work in a tiny format but got inspiration now
fear	tweets	One lane stop and go trafffffffic suckssss! Almost to wwork thanks to gay miinnnesota roads
love	tweets	The rain is good for one thing; getting dudes hoodies  haha!
fear	tweets	@faeyakof hahaha im broke, i need money  sighh.
love	tweets	Well good morning all, What a wonderful day in the neighborhood  Thanks for all those that are now following another 60 this morning
love	tweets	@catarino hah yeah I hear that, good luck today
love	tweets	@shortiee31
love	tweets	this time next week I will hopefully be holding my Lili in my arms!
sadness	tweets	@Da7e Man, that sucks and I feel your pain... if you were local, I'd buy you a cup of coffee.
sadness	tweets	It smells like the beach from my job..
sadness	tweets	@SlovakBrewer Yeah, I wanted to have some  I was bottling, so it's sanitized and all good. It tastes like those choc. oranges.
fear	tweets	I loveeeeee to live a - F A S T - pace lifestyle!
love	tweets	I must have viewed that picture of me and @alicecsws from saturday morning about a milling times  x
love	tweets	@TheBetterSexDoc   Wow what a beautiful picture... and by the way....I am straight....just wanted to let you know!!!     Bella
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 cheese and onion crisps are the best  alice or rosalie cullen ?
love	tweets	Bumper Sticker: &quot;If you don't want to stand up for our troops, feel free to stand in front of them&quot; Thank you to all in the military
love	tweets	Thank you Justin for my two dozen roses
fear	tweets	@sadknob living quite so close to RAF boulmer that might not be a good thing
fear	tweets	@ClareAshford  I blocked him too, lets hope it just goes away forever
love	tweets	@isparkleen wow, that's good
love	tweets	@Xx_Mcfly_xX ooh yay! let me just go accept her
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 lol, good luck with that ;) love your vid for YBWM
fear	tweets	End of the academic year brings in a lot of mood swings ... Just recovered from some serious hypertension
sadness	tweets	Really tired, and need to be up in the morning... Off to bed. Good Night All!!!
love	tweets	watching FRIENDS reduces stress inside me. Thanks to Bright, Kauffman, and Crane who are created these series  love love love
fear	tweets	I did it! I finished my first chapter summary on Care of Souls! Pray that I can have the Lords understanding! This isn't easy to do!
sadness	tweets	i hate waking up early! but i need to make up my 27 hrs at my pharmacy class. &gt;=[ sighhh.  in other news: breakfast time!!!!
fear	tweets	@MrEricPiRaTe You're being sooo ambiguous, no clue re:what's up? Must send me details! Oh, &amp; I'll be on tom re:the Greek &amp; tea tweet-ups!
love	tweets	It's Maiko's (keyboards) birthday today! He's been a good boy. Maybe he'll get presents.
love	tweets	@The_GreenWizard ah ha! Cool, will look into that more closely when i get on a proper sized screen! Thanks
fear	tweets	Feel sorry for Adam Cook. Be strong for David and family
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 i love you so much tay (: youre so amazing &lt;3 you should come to denmark, we love you here
love	tweets	Writing up this lesson plan makes me remember how much I truly do love To Kill a Mockinbird.  Maybe it'll be a summer read.
fear	tweets	@mitchelmusso ...and you're on my mind.. like all the time..
fear	tweets	@Julie3160,hey wassup
fear	tweets	@Alleywater She's good. Trying to suss out chap 7 when I'm not working. Trying to suss out a lot of things, but meh, you know whatever!
love	tweets	@nancypub happy anniversary then
fear	tweets	Need To Go Shopping  Boring Day T'day....Nothing To Dooo. College Tmro...How Fuckin' Excitin'  Wish Twitter Was Simplified For Me =] &lt;3
love	tweets	@DanceDahniDance yea I was about to call you shallow but you saved yourself by saying he makes good music
love	tweets	@jmbuckingham Time for me to seek out some coffee for my own caffein love affair too!! Mmmmm... Sweet been of hyper-goodness!!
love	tweets	@tommcfly You wouldnt change your fans for the world, tbh i dont think anyone would change mcfly for the world  You's are too amazing  x
love	tweets	I love when my ipod shuffles so all the good songs are all together
love	tweets	@RawHealer hey there keeping me healthy sister  nice to see you, have a great day
sadness	tweets	sooo long twitters! I'm off to Cuba
love	tweets	@FunkySteph Thank you! I hope you have a great rest of your day! Have you had your afternoon coffee yet?
love	tweets	@mbloomer64 awww. If I coukd send it from my phone I would. What kind of flair would you like?
fear	tweets	Welcome @cronhill my first German follower  My mother Hermine is from the Sudetenland and came to Sweden as a refugee in 1948
love	tweets	May the 4th be with you. Happy Star Wars Day!   http://tinyurl.com/cjamjt #starwarsday #geek #dork #fb #awesome
love	tweets	its probable bed time. hugs and kisses  &lt;33
love	tweets	Mmmmmm.... Coffee...
fear	tweets	So it's rainy in Georgia, what do I do? Wear bright colors and hope the sun comes out!  (I'm doubtful that this is going to work)
love	tweets	http://naturalismo.files.wordpress.com/2008/01/elliott10.jpg my hero
fear	tweets	@Dana_Willhoit Hoping your A/C is being fixed right now for you!
fear	tweets	may,1st success for lucas first police contact after neighborhood cruising with eggs, cream, bumf, shaving foam. love my son he`s a hero
fear	tweets	@joeymcintyre when you get your grill taken care of this morning how about a quick shot of the hands.  Don't ask why, just do it
sadness	tweets	HE SAID IT  HE ACTUALLY SAID IT and I think I'm gonna cry now. &lt;3
fear	tweets	Having a lazy bank holiday monday
fear	tweets	@modernemotive Done. Thank you
fear	tweets	staying home because I'm badass.
love	tweets	90210 9pm  I laaaaaaaaave it.
sadness	tweets	Round two of Vega: Vanilla Chai flavor.  Just realized that I have only 45 days left
love	tweets	@DonDivaWear  Thank you!
fear	tweets	time to lie in bed and watch tv
love	tweets	Goodmorning
fear	tweets	I'm yet holdin' on.
love	tweets	my mate megan is the best thing since sliced bread. i loveeee her
fear	tweets	@ianweiqiang Interesting Combination  Have a great one ;)
fear	tweets	@DavidArchie Did you end up finding something good and cheap for breakfast?
fear	tweets	Sorry for the apparent spamming today, followers. Trying to follow through on a request from a friend.
love	tweets	For every kiss you give me, I'll give you three -
love	tweets	@DavidArchie i already got my tickets to your concert here in the philippines! im so excited!
love	tweets	We &lt;3 Richard
love	tweets	Today is my Mother's birthday- Happy Birthday &amp; I love you! She is an angel whom has helped me so much during this time of my life
love	tweets	@Deirdre_Morris Congratulations! what a milestone for you and your girls! I'm almost at five months, just for one though  You rock!
love	tweets	You know who helps me almost everyday?  @gilv
love	tweets	watching my tiny nephew  perfect baby
love	tweets	Today is a very good day
fear	tweets	working on the callsheet
fear	tweets	My mind is calm &amp; my heart is happy.. Life is good.  ? Would it be ok if I took your breath away? ?
love	tweets	@SusanSweet thank you
love	tweets	Also, I designed the banner for http://mudroomboston.com/ - pretty stinkin' cute no?
fear	tweets	@myloveshine haha i hear that  i'll be done at 7pm though Dx so you'll be out far before i am not to mention i gotta pack my stuff up x.x
fear	tweets	@Helmuts hey helmuts!  im ratty if u remember me from scootertechno.. ;)
love	tweets	@docbaty Good night.  Sorry I missed you during our morning window.  See you at 5, I suspect.
love	tweets	@verabradley I love my Cargo Sling purse in Daisy Daisy!  I wish I would have gotten another one in a different color!
love	tweets	Good Morning
love	tweets	@beetee Love that book! My VW I'm about to turn in is named Scout.
sadness	tweets	@DamienCripps Awesome  Such a shame though Mark who was the Fiddle player died last month, Fab Version of Good Riddance (i have the album)
fear	tweets	@teddyrised Oh, that's bad. I made that mistake once before but still managed to pass though. So maybe it isn't as bad as he thinks?
fear	tweets	@reddiamond007 hey u know the sub on digg I said I needed help on soon? well it's up now n wud love it if u could digg it pls  Kaushik
fear	tweets	@kristofer93 hehehe pui foto? Ai ascultat top-ul ? a stat Bogdan la &quot;butoane&quot; este in training
love	tweets	is aching from rugby, good game
love	tweets	@sondrafaye ~ I'm sure that would make Mr. Koons very happy
love	tweets	@westwingjl good luck! It's not too bad, and if it is, it's curved grading so u might end up surprised
love	tweets	@bsouthern - love your new avatar!
love	tweets	Congrats &quot;Mine That Bird&quot; for being an underdog and kicking the crap out of all the other runners yesterday. I love seeing that happen.
fear	tweets	@pperiklis because i stopped today :S wish me luck.....  (had to overload first)
love	tweets	@ChristaGrant It was fun  At a friends house cuz you know I don't have a yard big enough for a firepit. SNIFFLE!
fear	tweets	is watching two + a half men, work experience again tomorrow
love	tweets	@PurpleCoffee Oh sure . Thx
sadness	tweets	Is pretty damn chipper today  even if the weather is rubbish! Excited for things to come!  xxx
love	tweets	Sorry for callen the cops the devil  haha I got a break I love the boyz. Listen it pays to b pretty wit dimples!
love	tweets	@brookstuh awww  I know you never will, I'm so thankful I can count on you, love ya boo
sadness	tweets	I'm surrounded by negativity good thing there is a Fly Guy to give me hope that there is something better  thank u Jesus
fear	tweets	i cant believes its already Monday, the weekend went by soooo fast, keeping my fingers crossed that will too
love	tweets	@TeoBishop I hate it when that happens!! Exciting though.
fear	tweets	i changedd my background  its from picnik.
fear	tweets	has just bought attics to eden by madina lake  it's totally AMAZING
sadness	tweets	Spoke out in class again  now the dreaded ch13 bio test
fear	tweets	@AJM1030 The movie was AWESOME, I wish I could re-load my pistols like Agent 0 did, but I do not want to be him  I think I will be Gambit
fear	tweets	@jcsalterego no turkey leg? i can't believe it!
love	tweets	@DavidArchie MCFLY?!!  Aren't they the best band ever? I wish I were there to watch the concert. Singapore isn't a place they'd tour.
sadness	tweets	Woke up late &amp; trying to get sh*t done before work
fear	tweets	Next thing to do tomorrow morning: Temperature Check! It's gonna be a routine till Swine Flu dies. Good Night, everyone!
fear	tweets	@Jenderose as nerdy as I am, I just found out it was Star Wars day today!  I love you D
fear	tweets	Being slammed with spam followers today. Is it just me? Or is that all I can attract.  Get a life people.
love	tweets	Good morning to all- and welcome new followers!
fear	tweets	@annna86 glad to know that the ad display problem was due to a firewall config at yr office. phew!
love	tweets	@bestdaeever ooohhh imma need you to get on that asap love you
fear	tweets	my body is aching. I can barely move...but its worth it to be champs
love	tweets	i love monday night lineup  just wish it was over the span of the week. gossip girl - big bang theory - how i met your mother - the hills
love	tweets	@vanillacrumpet You're following Ellen, Oprah, and... me! I'm honored!
sadness	tweets	apparently im not getting drives to school in the morning anymore? well my dad left so no school for me this morning.. watching twilight
fear	tweets	Just talked to donald faison about next day air. He doesn't understand twitter. And he loves cacee cobb
fear	tweets	Good Morning Twits!  Let's makes today x100 better than the one before! Start runnin
fear	tweets	@AlexWilliamson yeah i know hun, spammers seem to move fast though, already had two in first few minutes of posting.  Block 'em
fear	tweets	@markhoppus not cool, Mark, this song is going to be stuck in my head all day. but I love you, anyway... is it Star Wars Day today? cool
fear	tweets	@lauratoogood i did, thanks laura
sadness	tweets	I got a full day of work today.  Can't wait in tell i get home for some beer and tv time  but i got to make the money to get the beers
fear	tweets	@dannymcfly i lurveeeeee you
fear	tweets	Does 'Real Detroit Weekly' not have a website.....Oh the horror, the horror
sadness	tweets	@jaymiealyson i mean give. lol with a finger! then crash her car! lol jk. thats bad. just ignore her
fear	tweets	is problem free for now.  atleast i already said to that person the truth.
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 Cheese and Onion! Vinegar taste weird on crisps! England's got loads of weird crisps flavorus  lol.. What do you like ? x
fear	tweets	@Usticks555 ... lol that was a great hug. @BCishere they should be back sometime in may
fear	tweets	@erinjshea You have the best hair ever. Totally jealous. Mine's unfixable if I forget and leave sunglasses stuck in it too long
fear	tweets	@Gabrielle_Union don't let anyone run you away from anything
sadness	tweets	@ScaryMommy   Sure!  My entire blogroll is terribly updated, but this could motivate me to update and redo it!
fear	tweets	has onl? just got it and has not got a clue how to use the things
love	tweets	@madamecomedy IKR?! My mom got it for me a birthday a few years ago. Tis the best
love	tweets	have to go now by'all &lt;3 see ya later guys  xx
fear	tweets	@bbunderground it's a good mix of developers, content developers, providers and venture folks
fear	tweets	@LisaBeesa Because pop culture is beautiful. Also, you can't pull weeds wrong. I promise. You can practice on my yard if you are nervous
sadness	tweets	@sln25373 it was Lies. and my fav song is not alone from room on the 3rd floor
love	tweets	@ReneeJRoss Sure is rainy! the storm has left everything, everywhere... @litefm would love 4 u 2 follow us
love	tweets	Aaaah did you see Prez Obama holding hands with his wifey? Soooo romantic even in White House.....
fear	tweets	@j3nn1e time-warner? talk about AOL. we did our presentation on warner bros.
sadness	tweets	@iunfold That's true  I never believe my staff when they call in sick on Mondays or Fridays - LOL!
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 http://twitpic.com/4jk42 hey Gi! look at this pic of you and frankie that i took at the southend gig!
fear	tweets	please please please please let my match be cancelled today. PLEASE
sadness	tweets	@imjustcreative com'on dude always think that things can get worst
fear	tweets	@codemonkeyism How about SUSE?
love	tweets	LOVING the hot weather forecast for the rest of the week!!!!  Summer is almost heeeeere
love	tweets	Good morning World! Happy Star Wars Day! May the 4th be with you!
fear	tweets	@mela0521 dont think too hard, its bad for your health  lol love u girl
love	tweets	@ Little_Ren is lovely lovely, and so niceee
fear	tweets	@mmWine Oh, I would NEVER want that to happen.  But you know if you got lost, I'd find you!
fear	tweets	So apparently I need to mummify myself to keep my amazing good looks for a few thousand years?  Why hadn't I though of that sooner
fear	tweets	In class till 12  wishing the rain would go away!!
love	tweets	@Reseal i like
fear	tweets	@nuttychris I need to separate you and your sister @ComedyQueen  Today the role of evil aunt is being played by me!
love	tweets	watching shows I missed on the ellipital--- love my on-demand!
love	tweets	@ChuckJr thanks
fear	tweets	Morning all. It's Monday. Sigh. Trying to have a positive outlook on the day, but it's being difficult already.
sadness	tweets	@dumbblondy too bad - u can always change ur profile pic again
fear	tweets	time to hit the study notes! prep for friday's exam!
love	tweets	I'm gonna wear my new purple converse today
fear	tweets	@theskorpion I saw that!!!!
love	tweets	@AndreaNBC13HD Proud 17-year-old here that loves The Carpenters!!!
love	tweets	@rainstormiee Thank you.
sadness	tweets	@kurtismarsh Too far to go unless the prize is in the millions.  We know who wins
fear	tweets	@MelShay - u aint lost me, i'm right here
love	tweets	Very proud of my son - he's just found out he's been offered an unconditional place at music college
love	tweets	@MetroplexBaby: thx for the follow!
fear	tweets	@robwaumans Foto!
fear	tweets	@mcherrywv Yes I know  as my school reports would say 'must do much better' Ah well, just in time huh  http://myloc.me/tHq
love	tweets	@foxandfriends I am glad to hear that you are ok. Without you they would have to rename the show to  &quot;Just Friends&quot;
fear	tweets	@themightyshrub AP is Associated Press: http://www.ap.org/ There are many other global news agencies like it
sadness	tweets	wishes it wasn't a bank holiday so he could be on the radio this afternoon... but at least he has another week to come up with some ideas
love	tweets	@lauralassiter Welcome  They are beautiful snow leopards.
love	tweets	@Dementress BIG HUG FOR YOU
love	tweets	@drumcounselor it's my evening.
fear	tweets	studying with @rachborntorun and colette!
love	tweets	Trance or Drum'n'Bass are awesome for working!!  *dances it out*
love	tweets	In Arch. Drawing. Checking out MVCC's CAD degree. Looks good to me
fear	tweets	&quot;Puke In My Mouth&quot; the brilliant response to Jizz In My Pants  http://tinyurl.com/cy8z7y  Over the top wrong
love	tweets	wow...you leave facebook alone for the weekend and get 60 new notifications. WHEW!
fear	tweets	@gamboasan hmmm it's middle of a zombie-making day @ work here, dunno if jazz would help
love	tweets	@CoachKaterina  Just amazes the heck out of me still....this &quot;internet thing&quot;
fear	tweets	@r_petty I'm leaving community college with a bang!
fear	tweets	@BeShirtHappy I know what you mean. My little dog is sinking into depression... he wants to move someplace tropical
love	tweets	@MelodyLeaLamb Big Thanks Melody!  Gotta love that sunshine-lots of vit D
love	tweets	@DazzleMeThis ok sounds goood to me  hehe
love	tweets	@garymurning I can only imagine, but I know I love hearing about your novel!    I'm kinda awake, lol.  Will continue to do so, hopefully.
fear	tweets	@Cheaty For sure you should continue to Tweet WHILE on conf call, WHILE worrying about cat and bee.
sadness	tweets	The Gray Hat Python book reminded me how many security tools are python version specific, which is a pain if you need to use all of them
fear	tweets	@Wossy those splinters look very painful...but you were being very heroic saving mr. Pickle
fear	tweets	Finished my Marilyn Manson book  wow. He has had a colourful (or not so colourful, more black) life
love	tweets	Gonna go to work with my honey today!!!! So exciting!!!
fear	tweets	thinking about new.. oh yes .. btw bankroll stays at $14.88.. so down a bit from yesterday.. and I won't whine about bad beats  ..
fear	tweets	The cats are gone. All 3 of them.
love	tweets	@fredheader  ha ha, and what game is that? i like games
fear	tweets	I do hope many of my new followers are from around Sydney Australia  Welcome to my tweets anyway.
sadness	tweets	@marissa110 heyy i finally got one too  oh and good luck on your finals today
love	tweets	Morning tweets &lt;3 Sky and I are going to start this day off right with some shopping  Then off to the park.
sadness	tweets	@PRChels_BE I heard the Yellow Light Maybes put on a great show Saturday! Sorry I missed it, Chelk.
fear	tweets	@RC73 I hear U. I can barley keep up with the followers I currently have. Its tuff on a mobile device.
fear	tweets	Applying for part time jobs.  LMAO Hopefully someone needs some help. ~AP~
fear	tweets	Looking forward to a short work week followed by a mini-vacation in Clemson
sadness	tweets	Intel gfx driver situation much better with recent upgrades. kernel 2.6.30rc4 and driver from git: Suspend working again, fewer mem leaks
love	tweets	@CraigVenables thankyou
sadness	tweets	@Alyssa_Milano Hey there  Thought i'd tweet you to say Hi..I have so much to write but theres no space in this little box hehe Damn
fear	tweets	@TysonColinJoe I use an external track ball with my laptop. Again, seems excessive, but is totally more efficient.
love	tweets	@SuzeBoozey LOL good to know the time in LA, it's a 9h time difference ... @gorjess1 good morning to ya
love	tweets	O.M.G  im so sorry to hear about davids cooks brother! if u actually c this david Ireland Loves You!
love	tweets	@lollipop26 love watching your yt videos and am really looking forward to seeing the collection vid
fear	tweets	thanks everyone for praying for President Aquino.  http://plurk.com/p/rreml
love	tweets	and Mike for bring it to me even tho it was really late and he has to get up at 5am in the morning...
love	tweets	Good Morning All!   Hope everyone is doing well on this Monday!   Thanks for all the #followfriday recos!   I am blessed!
fear	tweets	@jesterjay SWINE FLU. Some family just came back from Mexico, i'm staying FAR away! Im feelin much better now thanks Jay
love	tweets	The World is just amazing!
love	tweets	@blueeyedmuse Thanks for the followfriday recommendation! We're actually at @_careerbuilder_ though!
love	tweets	Man... I'm really hoping I finish this Good Vs. Evil contest entry in time. Looking pretty good so far.
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 you really have to come to ireland some time! we love you over here &lt;3
love	tweets	Good morning everyone
fear	tweets	Done with classes and packing for the atlanits!! I hope miley's there
fear	tweets	voyed on MTV Movie Awards  Mostly on TWILIGHT and SLUMDOG   http://is.gd/wBt6
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4jkvh - I wasn't bored really..  my redd converse. I love converse.
love	tweets	@mileycyrus http://twitpic.com/3goxn - yes , everybody love you. i'm a german Fan. Follow me !
love	tweets	after pub lunch am now going to daughters for tea life is good
fear	tweets	@jsmithready It'd be really hard to give up my chocolate while reading.  Does chocolate count as a food?
love	tweets	@nic0lepaula http://twitpic.com/4jbhp - jeez! I think you look alot prettier without make up.
love	tweets	@alroaker Loved the comment on flashcads! I'm old school too!
love	tweets	@MyHandboundBook Love your latest journals. I finally joined Twitter so came to say Hi
love	tweets	@SwitchingGranny it is my honor
love	tweets	@brockhurst  Chocolate-flavoured nipple spread (with applicator) eh?  Perfect just what I'd been looking for, thanks
love	tweets	@jackgraycnn catching up on my tweets, I saw AC's promo of your new blog before yours, I knew immediately it would be yours by the title
fear	tweets	@readerwave if I know what you want it is easier to please you ;). I am glad you mentioned it
love	tweets	@TerrieSoberg hey that is pretty good sucking up - my daughter is exactly the same - glad to see I am not alone   Good luck mom
fear	tweets	@alansmitheejp yeah i want to know what that is too!
love	tweets	@heymamakat happiest of birthdays to you Kat
sadness	tweets	@DoctahAna Can't really do anything about that, now can I?
fear	tweets	@Tamarzipan My windows open and its not that cold ahahah
love	tweets	@WSPNews  Happy Monday to you as well! After a great festival this weekend, I have lots of soap to make..and a order to put in with you!
love	tweets	@mileycyrus http://twitpic.com/4fzo7 - you both have so beatiful eyes  i wanna have them
fear	tweets	Hell, my iTunes music library is even bipolar!
fear	tweets	@runawayblue don't worry though,he will be fine
love	tweets	@frankparker Good! I hope that it was a wonderful experience!
sadness	tweets	@smileitsbubbles that is yo name girllll!
fear	tweets	@earth2mars definitely dont be offended. im messing around with various twitter apps and strange things keep happening.
fear	tweets	got all A's
love	tweets	@FOX19Sara Go girl!! Start your day out right...gotta love that!
sadness	tweets	@scottharrison Thanks for the DM! I am on the ATL Twestival committee &amp; really hope you have a public speaking event soon!! Enjoy ATL
love	tweets	@weddingsites Not a problem. I loved that idea, and of course the photos were just perfect!
fear	tweets	Man with a great sense of humour... Venky Pachad?
fear	tweets	@kouzrah etherreal WAS my main preoccupation. Now it's EtherREAL's preoccupation... humm... me ? schizophrenic ?
love	tweets	@LewisForbes that sounds pretty sweet, you too must be loving it! yeah man that sounds cool, keen for that
love	tweets	&lt;3 ryan baby iloveyopu xxx &lt;3 10 days kayleigh baby lymz cntt waiit
sadness	tweets	@denise183rd yo wake your ass up  and go to work  go get that paper  u aint sick dont lie
sadness	tweets	@sbcvandy OMG! I KNOW!  I give myself a stroke everytime I go getting mad at them. (Quietly with the windows rolled up.    )
sadness	tweets	At school. Blagh. Yay I'm getting the IPhone in August!!
love	tweets	This is great!  I just found out that it's Star Wars Day.       &quot;May the 4th&quot; be with you!  Have you hugged your Ewok today?
fear	tweets	@chuckiem  Yes,  and I hope the show I promoted was clean.....   lol      Bella
love	tweets	@MotherBlanker I love brewing ideas! Great things always come from them.  keeping my fingers crossed for you!
fear	tweets	Shower. Class. More class. Taking care of my lady-friend. Writing like there's no tomorrow.
fear	tweets	Well hopefully the rest of the day gets better.
sadness	tweets	Watching &quot;All the Kings Men&quot;, It be pretty good so far!
fear	tweets	is sitting thru the boring bits in Titanic waiting for the good bit to start in couple of hours
fear	tweets	@neonbutterfly1 Thank you! I hope you saw the 2nd one I posted - the 1st won had some wonky color thing happening.
love	tweets	Coffee time  be back later kisses*
love	tweets	I love you - Martina Mcbride. Love this song!
fear	tweets	@AnnebrittB slaying dragons &amp; rescue innocents, this could be a good life movie   Make sure to take a camara and film!!!!
fear	tweets	@criminalminds  out of commish for a few days in ATL with fam.  Just saw the updates to the .net website... Looks AWESOME!
sadness	tweets	@PerezHilton hey perez! good luck! well, i'm still planning for a big present to be given for my mom! i love you mom!
sadness	tweets	@thisisbenwood -  I wanna go see them in Edinburgh  won't happen though haha , yir lucky! And have funnnn  xxx
sadness	tweets	idk why im so hyper im jumping everyhere. ugh lets let it be friday sweeney todd then cinco de mayo il those parties
fear	tweets	@littlefluffycat hehe--sorry.  I've never been very good at blending in...
sadness	tweets	@MissDeeeee don't encourage me... I've got years of this stuff. you will regret it !
sadness	tweets	@aweekes haha nope she won't  altho my train back from Leeds I booked an hour too early and they won't let me change it :/
fear	tweets	@teemwilliams i feel that!! esp when you know u aint done the wrong  &lt;3 U!
love	tweets	today is a good day to take lots of naps
fear	tweets	is thinking about &quot;magnetism and spiritual equilibrium.&quot; My do you alcoholics have a way with words!
sadness	tweets	@Heart_song Glad you had a wondrous Beltaine! Mine was quiet, yet in sync with the season.  Miss you all...
fear	tweets	I think it's time to take a shower &amp; get ready for the dayy.  I hope we go shopping while we're in Mason today. I want new clothes!!
fear	tweets	@WalkingHorse glad to hear that    Do you have a busy day today?
love	tweets	@kruss73 Hi Katie! Just signed in! How are you, sweetie?
love	tweets	Great, social network sites are still growing
fear	tweets	@lola0507 hi my love! Im ok, just trying to get thru these finals, they're going to be the DEATH of me. how are you
fear	tweets	about to book train tickets for friday!
sadness	tweets	I'm up. I have a plan to transform my bedroom today. Random.
love	tweets	@TruthsCompany Man, Joel!  You're amazing at uncovering that little truth hiding under my surface.  Thanks.
sadness	tweets	Good morning scary world!
fear	tweets	J, sorry about the bad night, hopefully my workout updates gave you a little humor in your night..
fear	tweets	I wish I had a friend that was a chiropractor
love	tweets	@TweetPhoto Kewl Sounds good. Will wait for it. Thanks
fear	tweets	May the fourth be with you.  Oh come on, no one had actually spelled it out yet
love	tweets	&lt;3 alayellow
fear	tweets	@bonobo_fr Yes I saw the Village but the restaurant in the Village Square has a sign above it that reads &quot;Digestif.&quot;
love	tweets	lapit na ko magout. lapit na fated to love you.hehe  http://plurk.com/p/rrj4e
love	tweets	Loves Agustin and his happy morning moods
fear	tweets	@matalatine I scare you? No!
fear	tweets	@sankar_datti Thanks sankar for ur wishes
love	tweets	@brinahaha i'm just starting it brinn, guess what?? i get my laptop back  but i can't use the messenger, hate it.
fear	tweets	Nailing some webconcepting *in the zone*. I should be awarded..
fear	tweets	Back at it after a weekend of working in the yard. Didn't open the laptop once, and I'm thankful.
love	tweets	May the 4th Be with you all!
love	tweets	@keithbrooks Glad to see you're still around
love	tweets	@wude72 @boulderdiaries Thank you!
fear	tweets	Whole body is sore from moving hundreds of pieces of luggage last weekend.   Guess I should visit the gym more often
fear	tweets	found rollo! and got happy  hmmm.. guess i really do need to be inserted back into the matrix 0_o\
love	tweets	@EverywhereTrip Lovely profile + website! Very neat... love the &quot;where is gary&quot; ticker!
fear	tweets	@midnatsol hello hun, how's things going? Tell me all
sadness	tweets	@orbicule wow great promo for orbicule. is there an english translation somewhere? my Norwegian isn't that good
fear	tweets	@Jazzled4life Doubtful! It's going to be on 24/2!
sadness	tweets	I  didnt know there was a starwars day
fear	tweets	@photojack i am tempted to say that twitter is the best thing since sliced bread  #togs
sadness	tweets	Big Sugar = yet another '90's bandwagon I was too late to get on. Next S&amp;D BNL should reunite them (kind of like they did for the Odds).
love	tweets	@bealove thank you my love
fear	tweets	@GaryED46 I'm supposed to be bug fixing, and I'm Twittering, too. It's not good enough. It's Twitter or work. Bug fixing will have to go.
fear	tweets	I'm now totally addicted to Farm Town. Frankly, it's more fun that fixing laptops or studying the diseases that will kill us all.
love	tweets	@NatashaWhiteley congrats!
love	tweets	@WFBL Thanks, the more, the merrier
fear	tweets	Back from NYC... convinced on moving to the LES by Fall
love	tweets	@kristenkey  so true...and so poetic! beautiful
love	tweets	Mommas day is may 10th! Don't forget to do something nice for your mommyyy
fear	tweets	@WaleDC Philly hasn't played it yet!!!  You have to do something about that!! Please
sadness	tweets	(SINGZ) SO I THINK IM JST ABT DONE BEING UR GIRRRLFRIEND....IM LEAVIN....IM LEAVIN! JST LOVE CM!
fear	tweets	@OurLittleAcre I guess, technically, I was still pregnant just a few months ago. Just with Alex instead of Elizabeth
fear	tweets	@kristalswan You're welcome! Cutie-pie kiddo.. in your picture btw  Love those shades!
love	tweets	@gpsrunner awesome run report!   Did you see the bald eagle on the lighthouse?  That was their hangout when I last ran Discovery Park.
love	tweets	Good Morning
love	tweets	We looked at apartments this weekend.  Found one we like.  Hubby going today to try to rent one of the apartments.  Crossing Fingers
fear	tweets	Check out my song &quot;time to lose it&quot; on www.myspace.com/flownyce you'll enjoy it I promise
love	tweets	@dominicalevina oh! that's my baby picture. i try to convince myself i'm still that cute. heheh.
love	tweets	@fmlim If you do, I'm sure you'll enjoy
love	tweets	@RachelleKOMO Very cute!  Don't miss out on puppy school.  Now's the time.
sadness	tweets	desktop quad-core Win7 boot time = 2'25&quot;, laptop dual-core w/ SSD Win7 boot time = 0' 13&quot; =&gt; SSD for desktop arrives in 2 days
fear	tweets	@Pixeljunkie202 Kind of glad I never started Kings now - one less thing to be upset about
fear	tweets	wishing I were somewhere else besides here!!  Don't worry this won't dampen my day and neither will the rain
fear	tweets	another week, another org change discussion....
sadness	tweets	@jordanknight I'm not having a good day... can u cheer me up with a tweet?  Even Tink will do. LOL.
love	tweets	@solangeknowles cn i gt a twit frm u pls?  Hva gr8 shw 2nyt !
sadness	tweets	@jimmyheartcore awwwww snaaaap Jimmaaayy.  You are the man with hookups.  Too bad I'm so far away!!
love	tweets	is soo in love with beyonce's song &quot;smash into you&quot;
love	tweets	@QueenieCyrus Heyyy  wats up?
fear	tweets	Mmm wasabi coated peanuts! Burns so good
love	tweets	... thanks everybody for your wonderful feedback re my Happiletter
fear	tweets	::Ugh:: Euro Civ exam... Studio Later though
fear	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day, everyone! May the force be with you all, be you Padawan or Jedi.
fear	tweets	@mythalez Scii-fi effects definitely look silly no doubt but its worth a watch inspite of that!!
love	tweets	@jenfraiz I loves me some Jeff Lynne, and I do enjoy sitar work, but that was kinda weird. To each his own, I s'pose!
fear	tweets	ahhh bank holiday slept late now going to dinner in my sisters whos a real &quot;monica&quot;  hahah and im late il get cold dinner now
fear	tweets	got a translation offer today. couldn't say no, even though it's german  simple computer stuff mostly. and only a couple hundred words.
love	tweets	@modmark hope y'all enjoy the MusicBoat Cruise.  What a tough job - haha!!!
fear	tweets	hahas . dam tried . just nw got exam . don know how much i will get . . but i having fun today . with my pri sch friends  until 5plus . =D
fear	tweets	Goooosh! Someone payed my LastFM subscription  ^^
love	tweets	is listening to &quot;La La Land&quot; i love it
love	tweets	Getting ready to meet Laura!  Than training, even if I'm sick.
love	tweets	Just wanted to give a quick welcome and thanks to all of you whom I now follow or have following me, looking frward to tweeting w/ you
fear	tweets	@edwelker make sure you practice your hooping today!
love	tweets	Having indian food in the middle of Wales, very very typical, huh?
love	tweets	@deeeniseee eh, you're a really nice girl   How are you? miss youuuuuuu
fear	tweets	@arodomus aww sorry to hear you are having a bad time. Remember: this too shall pass
fear	tweets	@jordanknight are you TINK'N the people on the street in NY waiting 4 friday are crazy? Brooke
sadness	tweets	@xxPat..not that school wouldnt suck all the time
sadness	tweets	blerg, damn you Monday, why must you always come.  Decent weekend, new glasses, hair color and got carded at Gamestop = awesome ego boost
love	tweets	@aea1023 thanks thought you might want a flower today.
love	tweets	@MarieLuv  YOU MAKIN' ME HORNY
fear	tweets	The phones are lit up like christmas trees. Go to work people. You don't have to get everything done on monday.
fear	tweets	Happy Star Wars Day // Will Week
love	tweets	@jordanknight  yes really if it is that time of day again.   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
love	tweets	Can someone chemics ?
love	tweets	the big boss is out all week.. small yay. free lunch for the office today, big yay!
love	tweets	Nobody does it better than www.traveljunky.com Not even half as good   ? http://blip.fm/~5jv7j
fear	tweets	@kirstiealley that is soooo scary! Be careful! We only have one Kirstie!
fear	tweets	@darlsXzpott3r I'm doing good thanks   And yourself? and sorry, lil busy at the moment.
fear	tweets	@ddlovato who said demi can't wear her Converse with her dress oh baby, that's just demi.
love	tweets	@pseudosophical YAY YOU! So proud of you!  and I'm not even being sarcastic. Even though you told me to shut the fuck up.
fear	tweets	Definition of senioritis: Me. About to go to chem II and calculus. Not good classes to feel like slackin
fear	tweets	@BadAsh77 got it i'll send you an email in a lil bit i have a lot to say
fear	tweets	@gthogan I think you forgot a couple exclamation points.
sadness	tweets	@t_rothlisberger That's fucking awesome!  *bookmark*
fear	tweets	@TheRealKeeks Thats ok Keeks I'll Pass the 151 to you that will chill you out
fear	tweets	Have 3 of the 5 grandbabies again today. 19 month old twins and a 3 1/2 month infant. I love every minute of it too.
fear	tweets	Trying to figure out the perfect way of leading a principled life
sadness	tweets	@Afey umm how abt a comment like that :p &quot;i dont like this&quot;
fear	tweets	@OfficialBabyV I wish you where going to be in the Saga
fear	tweets	check out the flyer i designed for the notary and retrograde: http://rachellovespeace.blogspot.com let me know what you think
sadness	tweets	@jordanknight I have now officially resigned myself to never knowing what Tink! means....
fear	tweets	Now I'm following you Ah Ha! Love your laff
sadness	tweets	@mickster09 You don't have to rub it in.
love	tweets	Loves the 2nd half of even days, orch and jazz band with daddy
love	tweets	@MusicIsLife377 that's a good attitude
love	tweets	Thank you all new, first time Japa Dog customers! Twitter spreads the word! We like new customers
fear	tweets	@JustZIPP hey rocstar
fear	tweets	monday morning. what to do. ...puzzles!
sadness	tweets	@stii no, it makes you realise how doomed humanity in USA is
love	tweets	hi everyone, hoping all of you have a good week
fear	tweets	@The_Gov hi gov!! How are you?
fear	tweets	@scooby867 Cheers for that! Will have a look at that later and hopefully get sorted!
love	tweets	Supernatural was mega good  Now I'm off to bed, urgh long day of school tomorrow x
fear	tweets	@mrjoecool well praise the lord 4 gud moods i kno i need 2 b 1, im workn out ma thighs &amp; these dark clouds is scaring me
love	tweets	Love thy self. Keep it simple. Learn Tai Chi. Those are my aims today. Beat up ankle is less swollen  I am on a no negotiation vacation!
sadness	tweets	@dragonblogger My pleasure  I really enjoy your random word poetry, and am disappointed when I miss out on participating!
fear	tweets	A little bit of good news.
fear	tweets	Jaydiohead &quot;No Karma&quot; ? http://twt.fm/91610 #musicmonday This is not the android I was looking for. But it'll do.
sadness	tweets	@tuaw In case no one gave you a heads up, AT&amp;T just put out an iPhone app for account management (MyWireless) I'd love to see a review
fear	tweets	virus hunting on computer - always wondering what it will destroy
love	tweets	@luannarodham nothing sweeter than YOUR 4-year-old!
fear	tweets	If you carry your childhood with you,  you never become old..A. Sutzkever
love	tweets	@solangeknowles Nice!!!!!!!! I WILL be there
fear	tweets	@DaisyCurlyCat oh wow, daisy, that is TOO cute for words!!
sadness	tweets	@Etsy never noticed that before but you're right! guess that's because my heart is always dreaming of travel...
fear	tweets	@martinb9999 need to get an intel based mac 1st   but this impacts on dual core vs quad choice, latter probably better for virtualization
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 I think sandwiches or something like this with ham and cheese
sadness	tweets	What am I doing atm? http://twitpic.com/4jmeh Oh yeah. Apple Juice  I'm such a rebel!
fear	tweets	listening to my future roomie speak in chapel
love	tweets	in ten minutes shopping   demi lovato-back around demi lovato-behind enemy lines have you all seen the titanic 2 trailer? its really good!
love	tweets	@gfalcone601 you happy that Frankies back from France  xx
fear	tweets	@rocketheartx YES SHE WANTS A COOKIE. SO DO I. ESPECIALLY THAT ONE THAT ARCHIE GOT FROM COOKIE ) ... RP?  mark the date
love	tweets	says HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL THE MOMS OUT THERE!  http://plurk.com/p/stezd
fear	tweets	@MattyOsborn YIKEYSSS!!  I'M HARMLESS REALLY!! JUST WANT SOME ATTENTION FROM BRODY!!!
fear	tweets	@wendywings Just hoping you're ok, sincerely concerned
sadness	tweets	going to the lumberjack party
fear	tweets	I honestly hate what I have said to some ppl sometimes. sorry for makin an ass of myself to anyone.
love	tweets	@danameller Aww, thanks!
love	tweets	watching this african music show on the tele  me loves ittttt
fear	tweets	Packing for Florida  What's the liquids in a carry-on rule - 3 or 4 oz? Haven't flown in over a year
love	tweets	@cityslipper wellll...... only 2 that will feed me   the others were mainly shade loving native wildflowers.
fear	tweets	@jadeofjades  I Hope You're Okay.Do What Beyonce Do...
fear	tweets	Waiting in line for the Beast with Matthew.    I won't be riding.
love	tweets	@howie_d thats good to know, and I bet he looks just like you.
fear	tweets	That kids is what you get when you leave your computer unattended, when you have non-trustworthy company...
fear	tweets	@victoriastrauss you know, i would love to see 5 lies editors believe about writers. #justsayin
fear	tweets	i miss you tooooo  you arent too far! *A*
love	tweets	Sooooo glad Stone Creek Coffee is following me!  I *love* their atmosphere!
love	tweets	Watching HG-TV....and a cute carpenter guy  woo hoo!
love	tweets	@misssprintcup http://twitpic.com/4w06l - LOVE IT! U have a great job!!
sadness	tweets	Awww I wonder when ima get married. Shawna and Damon are so cute
love	tweets	home; just had yogurt factory, i love yogurt  also hung with my uncle and lucy
love	tweets	Holy Crap EMS stasher rain jacket you are my new best friend!
love	tweets	@iggypintado Thanks  Will Do
fear	tweets	i'm about to munch on some more high calorie things!  they keep my brain working
fear	tweets	@weirdFishes you're very welcome! I love reviewing free apps as much as downloading/using them!
love	tweets	great song  http://bit.ly/evluw
love	tweets	@MissLDN What was the compiment? I'm glad you're having a good time.
love	tweets	@guitarcat213 Yes we both do win!
love	tweets	I miss @CharlieOver9000 I love that boy.
love	tweets	@howie_d you're gonna take good care of that little baby and he's gonna be a strong boy, that's for sure
love	tweets	@SaraBareilles just the mere fact that you twittered and someone read it, then it matters p.s. love your song Gravity
love	tweets	@heidimontag It was wonderful, just home from a wedding. I love it   How was youre's?
sadness	tweets	@KausarAzam  Hew how u been????Srry I haven't posted a vid in forever,I feel guilty lol,so in the next few days hopefully
fear	tweets	@DRESINATRA that's dope!  stay out of trouble
fear	tweets	Kinda doing nothing. Life is boring. I feel like changing my look. Let's go shopping tomorrow
sadness	tweets	I meant mamas
love	tweets	I'm making my mommy her Mother's day present, I love her
fear	tweets	Watching my bro play footyball
fear	tweets	Time to get purrtty. *wink*
love	tweets	@howie_d Aaaww!! That's so good to know, I'm glad James is doing great  We LOVE you guys! KIsses from Venezuela!
fear	tweets	@peechXXXX  http://bit.ly/SjNAx If he is saying something I don't fully understand, please let me know.
love	tweets	success! another paper demolished! the rock god lives on! 2 more...well, 1.5 to go. Yes!!! out to celebrate awesomeness ...
love	tweets	Psyched for Mother's day at the GKR party--and teaching mom and dad about baseball
love	tweets	PROUD 2 BE A MOTHER  I HAVE MY SON &amp; HIS COUISN OVER SPENDING A NITE, IT'S A BOYZ NITE, &amp; THEY DRIVING ME CRAZY BUT I LUV EM..
love	tweets	@HuniB Neep a nap-take a nap - respect ur body love
love	tweets	watching Cavs game. LeBron James, my newest love!  36 pts for Cavs, 17 by LeBron!
love	tweets	@max2sky I  have a visual.  I'm smiling.    see
love	tweets	Photo: I like da cooolooorss and the composition is great  scribkin: http://tumblr.com/xyb1qw8cb
fear	tweets	Tooth ache...but still sipping lol at the fam. Partyyyy
fear	tweets	just getting off of work for the day! Hope everyone has a wonderful mother's day tomorrow! Hope you enjoy ur cheesecakes too!
love	tweets	@miniatus Well thank you darling...it was a pleasure shopping with you...you will see the first pics!
love	tweets	@specialk0478 yeah she's part lab, part spaniel.. all energy hehe but i love her to death
love	tweets	Boy is all graduated!  So proud of him!
love	tweets	@johncmayer heylo johnn (: im a huge fan. hope ur day is awesomee. cuzz im home sick and its kinda less than awesome.. anyways.. PEACE
love	tweets	Spending quality time with my family! God knows I need this right now...
sadness	tweets	If you save these pix from the Today show please credit www.wireimage.com Thanks
love	tweets	@SarahRoseteER happy early mothers day!!!!
sadness	tweets	@kurliedoc poor grace!!! You need to date a cute male nurse.
love	tweets	Ha ha ha @yoko71 I know! Love it! Love him!
sadness	tweets	ok shopping was far too fun ~ unpacking the bags now
sadness	tweets	@RedHotCopy I fell asleep on a plane watching Frost/Nixon - hope it works out better for you than it did for me
love	tweets	The Goonies. Projected. On a garage door. With my friends. Amazing.
fear	tweets	@jeffpower What are you reading?
fear	tweets	ops   that lol wasnt supposed to got to twitter
love	tweets	@howie_d ...I'm so happy for you guys! COngratulations!
love	tweets	good luck tonight boy
fear	tweets	resting had a whole day of walking
fear	tweets	@_handz_ it was quiet.... unfortunatly but what the hell it's good the chill out too right?
love	tweets	just had a bbq... YUM im full now
love	tweets	@ryan_leslie I love the video!! You are inspiration Mr. Leslie, can't wait for the new album still rocking the debut.
fear	tweets	@coolzebras They open at 9 a.m.   And I hope to be there shortly after that.   No guarantees for me though!
fear	tweets	@mamapigeon I be ok, you?
fear	tweets	@The_Tech_Update Do you know your Nutty Newsire twitterfeed ones are coming through w/o links? I can't be lazy without the links...LOL
love	tweets	@EugeniaChavez http://twitpic.com/4w1gg - love it
love	tweets	I completely forgot it was mothersday today.. Lol  Happy mothersday to all of you beautiful mums out there!
love	tweets	@mde Glad to hear you made it out, I hear that place used to be it's own country  Looking forward to your arrival!
love	tweets	@sexinstilettos NICE TO TWEET U
sadness	tweets	Slept in, woke up with an iced coffee, lazed about &amp; went out for a late lunch with the BF. It's been a sweet little laid-back Saturday.
fear	tweets	Pretty  is it long or short? Sparkly or shiny? Lol
fear	tweets	@robdyrdek You know, there are just some things that shouldn't be seen. That's sure as hell, one of 'em. lol
love	tweets	I &lt;3 Owl City.
love	tweets	wow, nothing like a sale to perk up a girl's evening, huh!
sadness	tweets	Just finished mowing the lawn.
fear	tweets	Ok peeps...I'm not crazy...I was twittering 2 someone but had no idea how 2 direct msg from my cell! Blonde moment!
love	tweets	@NJE112 hey mate fancy finden you on hea
fear	tweets	@ATL_Da_Realest hehe hell. I'm finna qet to drankin DAMNIT.
fear	tweets	@michaelsheen OMG that's really good i want to see the photos! have a nice day
love	tweets	@huma_rashid aww how cute  I like that song a lot
fear	tweets	@wearpalettes I really don't want to send it over this site....it's kinds private...
fear	tweets	Recovering from my crazy family. I love them, but they ain't got it all   I only see em a couple of times a year, so I guess I can deal.
sadness	tweets	good morning. today is my last day of &quot;freedom&quot;. back to work tomorrow. i'm sorta stoked-not stoked. but well.
fear	tweets	i gots a summer job
fear	tweets	hanging out with my babyy
love	tweets	@FirstDigg Congrats on your bike ride today.. Very impressive indeed.. Ya might be doing' the &quot;Tour De France&quot; some day
love	tweets	@kkaleal my hubby's a vet, so we 'get' that animals are like children!! all the best! hope ur biz is going well
fear	tweets	@eeshkapeesh Aw, sorry E. :/ I hope it looks up for you (lame ear) And there's always next year! Crap. Lamer ear :/ Fail. Uhh..Love ya E!
love	tweets	I love you MOM!
love	tweets	@thespunkyone So then Fuckin Awesome Super Sexy Stud Muffin Beast, How's that sound to you @JonathanRKnight
sadness	tweets	@Sobbee Naw.. it was pretty tame. Only 1 guy in costume.. a Voyager-style &quot;medical&quot; uni. Disappointed there weren't any more in costume.
love	tweets	is STILL sick. But still loves revenge and the possibility of more revenge to come
sadness	tweets	I'm in VA for the weekend, my youngest son turns 2 tomorrow......it makes me kinda sad, he is getting so big, check out my twipics
love	tweets	wishes @ashleytisdale would admit she has a new lovah
fear	tweets	@CHAUNDON SON! WTF?? She just bit holes in the damn bread!!! Who does that?? Why has God forsaken me?? why?
fear	tweets	@flamingokitty *hugs* me not sad really, me just messing
love	tweets	Loving the cairns clan
sadness	tweets	@yourfaveblonde I could have! I had extra tickets. Plus we had two Twitter Giveaways  We'll get you next time.
fear	tweets	Lil Kim ;  Download omq ; i think i like that sonqq noww lol .
fear	tweets	@retrorewind can you play I Wish by Jordan Knight
love	tweets	@gvesenka I hope for a speedy recovery for you!
sadness	tweets	At the apartment, nothin to do, a little hungry  http://myloc.me/Fim
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Mums
love	tweets	In a really Good mood for absolutely no reason  tee her
fear	tweets	Happy mothers day to all the mothers out there!
fear	tweets	I wonder if I should put a bet on Cubs winning world series in 2015 due to BTTF II. I'd love it if it actually happens.  Me = geek
love	tweets	Geesh 5 days straight (he's not the boy-nside joint) LOL .....headed with @missdanibaby and then go c BF
love	tweets	@mallz Thanx love
fear	tweets	@gregfairbanks They better not be out when I get there.  I NEED MY FIX!
fear	tweets	Rewarding myself with dinner at American Dream pizza on the rooftop terrace. Perfection  got 7 pages done on the prospectus!!
love	tweets	@K_night4me *HUGS*  i'm sure they will
fear	tweets	@animesnob yeah i checked it, pretty nice site
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day to MOMMY
love	tweets	@kyladreams aw you're the shit  thanks so much for the twitter loveeee. i appreciate every last drop
love	tweets	Love story on loop for the past 30 minutes. I love this song.. It makes me happy, like this!
fear	tweets	i am promsing miiself im not goin to hurt miiself for the rest of the day...wow that will be a miricle if it happens  lol
love	tweets	@Franca Honored to tweet ya...
love	tweets	Uh, happy mother's day mum.
fear	tweets	Tomorrow's mother's day. I need to get all my crap together soon.. Noor left, It was fun  it's been NINE months!
sadness	tweets	Nanay cried after reading the card I gave her. Hugged her and next thing I knew, I was crying, too! Haha We're such cry babies. Love her.
fear	tweets	@psuperstar the problem is, superstars always deliver huge files! too much energy pixels
love	tweets	Alexander Ovechkin is definitely my new favorite NHL player
fear	tweets	@shelby_says ha ha funny
love	tweets	KMF going smoothly so far. Free stuff is always a plus.
love	tweets	@Mariah1221 oh n shouldn't you be shopping for a lovely gift for your delightful mother.
love	tweets	Happy mother's day nfty!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
love	tweets	@jcpwee JACKSON RATHBONE!
fear	tweets	@esoterismo My Dad told me music that has the power to heal the soul. Sure is true of yours
love	tweets	Really enjoyed Star Trek - great movie, amazing special effects. Definately recommend even if your not a Trekky
sadness	tweets	@miss_k_renee On a Saturday? Not so cool friend. Same job  Different position! Let me know when your in town again!!! Miss U
fear	tweets	A painter paints pictures on canvas.  But musicians paint their pictures on silence  ~Leopold Stokowski
love	tweets	@lexuslady http://twitpic.com/4vdc3 - Lexus has the Twitpic! Happy mother's day to you Lexus.  I hopw it's a nice one for you.
sadness	tweets	IM FEELIN RITE.. THE MOOD FLOR TWITTER AFTER DARK...
fear	tweets	@TheTinyJEWELBox No, that's not right - I remember now.  You were in a fearless tweet - we were both seen as fearless.
love	tweets	finished proofing the wedding from March .. now just waiting for export and upload before I can share  Still have 2 more sessions to do!
love	tweets	All you moms, get ready to enjoy your much-deserved special day!
fear	tweets	@jasontryfon Are they abusing your service? Manual follower management is a pain. I love the style.
fear	tweets	@ploogle Whaat? That would seem to be a very powerful spell. Kind of tips the scale in their favor.
love	tweets	@manu_preet haha one of the many reasons I love you
love	tweets	Do you know what? I have a good little life, and I love it.
love	tweets	Naps are so lovely
sadness	tweets	im joining twitter  lol
fear	tweets	@debadowling...OOOPS AGAIN, the reply button is the RIGHT of the msg...now I'll stop spamming
fear	tweets	@ParkerAngel this is very true about @patofnavar! but you do have to admit it was pret-ty funny! im bout to go you tube it!  lol
sadness	tweets	we did what we had to do
love	tweets	@Vittyliu a lovely weekend thank you  Whats it like where you live? Exciting im sure  night night xx
fear	tweets	@13rianDavis sometimes ... you just have to write it off ... and start from the top of your tweet stream.  The past has happened
love	tweets	Good morning, everyone!
love	tweets	@wale I'm gonna havta temp stop fllwing u while ur talkin abt kobe bc I loveeeeeeee him &amp; I'm taking it personal and I like lebron 2.
love	tweets	i absolutly love kill bill vol. 1!!! I think lucy liu is sooo gorgeous!!!!
fear	tweets	havent been on in awhile.  no point anyways
love	tweets	Sidebar: the moon is SO beautiful
fear	tweets	And I just left ana's. Graduation and u saw laura carlos's ex and she's still whack
fear	tweets	@LovelyLu I don't watch - just wish - TV's been off for months- I love it  Guess I won't win though LOL
love	tweets	happpy mothers day
love	tweets	@Pamela010474 that is a good pic  All the guys looked good yesterday tho..don't ya think?
love	tweets	i have a crush on someone!
love	tweets	Subway=yum!
fear	tweets	@Adamfyre absolutely!
love	tweets	I lafff the rain
love	tweets	@MayMclean BabyLove em homenagem ao Baby D
love	tweets	@MissMdMorgan thank you! Marc Jacobs thou ....love limited too
love	tweets	whats this? a night out with @abby1ill? sounds like trouble... the good kind
love	tweets	@missrara  congratulations on your shirt btw!
fear	tweets	@OMGitsBrianna I love koda!!! He is sooo cute!!!!! You guys have that in common!!!
fear	tweets	fuck you is all i have to say
sadness	tweets	@aliceqfoodie Wow, you mom has a lot of energy. I'm getting tired just reading your tweet and ur living it.
fear	tweets	needs shows before wednesay!!! oh well... come one come all... Irvine Improv live @ Gotham Showcase 8pm  lots of good comics...then me.
fear	tweets	@Taryll um...how long has it been since you slept?? startin to worry over here.. well i hope you are having fun... lots of love to you
love	tweets	@itschelseastaub http://twitpic.com/4vp3x - *swoon* Nick looks so cute when he is serious  *faints*
love	tweets	dont worry baby i'll eat sum cake for the both of us , i'll hit u up wen i get back. bye, dont eat too much at home
fear	tweets	@_Esme_Cullen_  I'm taking a million songs from your blip.fm station thing. Sorry
love	tweets	@shaznyc I drink my Corona's sans the fruit.  Perhaps I'm just lazy.
love	tweets	@HappySlip Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	In bed now  tonight has been really really funny, best family ever !
love	tweets	@caligone01 Thanks mama ! I absolutely adore her
love	tweets	Had a brill night out with the girls - met terry christian at tv21! He was really lovely. Home to berocca and toast
fear	tweets	@dontspell_esl  If in doubt, wash separately   Normal concern is something fading onto the white.
sadness	tweets	@dannywood BTW I STILL can't believe how Awesome the NEWJABBAKIDZ performance was...U in the masks..I screamed at my pc
sadness	tweets	@COecobroker And I still recall how helpful you were way back when as I struggled on an AR contest question...
fear	tweets	@allthatglitrs21 you mum sounds so humble ! what a sweet thing to ask for
fear	tweets	Having a long island ice tea
fear	tweets	@slushy_gutter Trent wore that shirt at my show
fear	tweets	@kellie_apple miss you too kid i sent msg to you on yt
fear	tweets	causee not everyone can pass the challenge test duh
love	tweets	@esmeg Had one of the female servers tell her ass looks big in those pants. She will worry all night long Lol
love	tweets	i just got my neighbour to sign up, follow her on @hannabornehag  xoxo
love	tweets	I ? JONAS' second episode! Aww! Nick is so handsome
sadness	tweets	@gheekchik hmmm...the one restaurant/one grocery is sad. not the dukbolgi.
love	tweets	@MacSheikh @GhadaLancer Thanks for the FF  I think I should start doing these too
fear	tweets	Just snuck out my window.. Now im laying on my roof looking at the stars. Its a nice night out tonight.
fear	tweets	@Migg But I can still putt 30 yards longer than you can hit your driver
love	tweets	@IamSoMe  aw. how nice  haha
fear	tweets	@UncleRUSH get well soon! God is watching over you
love	tweets	@daniiidarko i need lele to answer meeee! Haha.
sadness	tweets	@guilty_ Awww. So that's him. Nice attempt at hiding from the camera
love	tweets	&quot;...you'll never have to be alone; i love you, and that's all i really know...&quot;
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day to all you Mums out there
fear	tweets	@GabrielCarrejo sorry my friend ... but @intel is paying the mortgage!
fear	tweets	Nyappy mother's day to your mom's.
love	tweets	Working security for the club tonight. First time working it in about a month. Should be interesting. Oh, and hi Kelsenator!
fear	tweets	@Sophie_Lhoste Thanks you so much for following me on Twitter; I hope you find it as exciting as I do! Looking forward to your tweets!
fear	tweets	@chupacharged you drank it on the sly, didn't you and that's why you're asking. I know how you are
love	tweets	@AndyBradbury thanks so much....I'm so glad I have a productive, loving, happy, law abiding, assisting others.....son!
fear	tweets	@imjstsayin Im doing ok.  I have a 15 year old going on 35 that is driving me crazy, but that comes with the territory, I guess.
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w3he The pretty flowers john mains brought the ladies 2nite!
love	tweets	going to see star trek with my babe  im actually excited about this hah
fear	tweets	@eamobile I apparently have crappy typing skills...lol sorry
sadness	tweets	a successful shopping day
fear	tweets	my mum would be happy to receive 2 handbags and a card from us today. heheee.
love	tweets	the mum's cake is done.. now i need make a good luch and tomorrow will be an amazing Mum' day
sadness	tweets	Back then I didn't know why you were misunderstood. So now I see thru ur eyes, all that u did was love. Mama, I love you
fear	tweets	Off To The Movies With Abby (Who I Have Not Seen In FOREVER) To See Star Trek. L8er Twitter Folk
fear	tweets	sorry for taking over twitter with my i-can't-sleepness
sadness	tweets	@vonstroke Heidi just finished her set at Stiff Kitten with Aundy
love	tweets	@FSBigBob He's gonna do it for mothers day  Ever notice Papa looks like Squiggy from Laverne snd Shirley. I love him.
love	tweets	Aw! Tear! I feel special to da family.  Haha thanks girls i love yal
fear	tweets	is ONLiNE  http://plurk.com/p/stjdg
love	tweets	@vachan Just checked out SPB.This mobile application rocks!! has a gr8 potential going forward be a &quot;must have&quot;  4 Windows Mobile users
fear	tweets	@JoyofZen mmmm it all sounds tasty. i had some spiced rum earlier, yummmmmyyyy also herbs are always good although better when shared
fear	tweets	@Wolfie_Rankin And until soy beans have TEETS, soy &quot;milk&quot; *is not milk*.
love	tweets	@beaky22 I know! I can barely believe it's almost over! Thanks for the review, lovely!
love	tweets	: experiencing the unique #Winnipeg tradition known as &quot;the social&quot;. Trying to pace myself.
love	tweets	the play's over, it was really good
love	tweets	@juicystar007 together
fear	tweets	Exhausted after coming home from a swim this morning! It's more tiring than I remember! HAPPY MOTHERS DAY
sadness	tweets	@santojay They assume you won't be able to afford traveling anymore now that you've got a contract with them
love	tweets	@Kohmahts ReTweeting's my favorite.    #palin
love	tweets	This is the last time to get it right...  hello loves....
love	tweets	@tonyrobbins Thanks for the reminder Tony
love	tweets	Relaxing at home, loving my mom
fear	tweets	That's how you go from series to season. The days of being an elite team are over in Dallas. EPL Derby Day tomorrow. Tell me what I miss.
fear	tweets	now watching kill bill vol. 1  i love movies so much.
love	tweets	Home from gallery opening in Woodstock, NY. Frined had work on display.  Much great, cool and interesting art to be seen.
love	tweets	@jonasbrothers http://twitpic.com/4qpzx - i love you guys  you're the best
sadness	tweets	I have the best Brother-in-law in the World. He just sent me Twilight Blue ray gift set. Now if I only had a blue ray player
love	tweets	In the car on the way home from the mall. I got four new adorable items of clothing that I am really excited about!
fear	tweets	@Paul_Coleman Looks a little too &quot;fried&quot; for me, but you have fun with that, Paul!
love	tweets	@LILJIZZEL I GOT UR BACK @ BABY!! much love to ya!
fear	tweets	Thank you, Gerbino, for forcing us starting junior year to make survey mockups. Let me tell you how super helpful this skill has been.
fear	tweets	Leaving the beach .. Having a great day with vicente .. We needed this time together
love	tweets	woot, just won http://www.wowhead.com/?item=40328 for my tanking set, when the offspecs were allowed to roll, i got a 100
fear	tweets	Hmmm.. If I skip the grocery store and head to Walmart, I could potentially leave with so much more.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! She liked the poem.
fear	tweets	just got home from a partyyyy. had a good time. can't wait for my birthday in 7 days!
love	tweets	@mynameismo You too - hope your day was good!
love	tweets	Ben I Love yahh babe &lt;333! i miss you hope to see u tomorrow  Mommy i love  you tomorrow happy mothers day! happy mother day to all moms!
fear	tweets	just found two very moldy and squishy reasons why non cracker based foods aren't allowed in the play room. When mom's away...
love	tweets	Had a little romantic date with suzy in uptown
sadness	tweets	@lanceschmidt Yeah I was kinda bummed, but tell them I'm gonna miss them too! I loved your class! You guys made student teaching fun.
fear	tweets	@iPhoneAppAttack I thought it was pretty good! I'm not a die hard Trekkie either.
love	tweets	Ooooo! I'm lovin the First Lady's fuschia sheath dress! Tres chic! I want her arms!
love	tweets	Thx everyone for all the mothers day tweets and sms'
fear	tweets	Wait...I thought it was 9:50? Don't we have till 10?   #sigjeans
love	tweets	@Hogman49 thank you! I really appreciate that babe
love	tweets	@nancyisgold hahahaha! i laughed my ass off just now. thanks
love	tweets	as landice said; &quot;uhmazing.&quot; you are all uhtterly uhmazing.   - helenuh.
love	tweets	@spiritequality lol well, RBI IS the one that schooled me on the art of djing when I was a teen. I call him my Jedi Master.
fear	tweets	@mattmoreno I really like miller park too  too bad the cubs aren't leading, hopefully they can get it together soon
love	tweets	Itt's the BIG TIME Saturday night  Playing Canasta then a movie then...Psych homework?  Stay shiny and love everybody!!
love	tweets	At the fashion show supporting my allison
love	tweets	happy mothers day
fear	tweets	@SongzYuuup good,get some rest MONEYMAKER
sadness	tweets	Pappadeux has some yummy strawberry lemonade
sadness	tweets	i'm causing trouble with my partner in crime.
love	tweets	Awe My Mommy Just Said She Loves The Cat  Meow. Apparentlly The Cat Cried When HE Was Born.
love	tweets	@OhshiiiNikki were gonna go crazy before you leave
sadness	tweets	I am sitting at the computer eating grapes  it's hailing outside! o: I MISS SUMMER.
fear	tweets	@Late2thePartee feeling any better hon?
fear	tweets	@Paigex3 hah yeah, its that bad, not gonna lie. :o Have fun
love	tweets	@ArthurFontes check out review for the movie Fighting - http://bit.ly/Fle9j Hilarious!! leave this guy a comment!
love	tweets	playing my new ds lite!    Love it!
love	tweets	hey my luvs! miss you all . .got the email thanks. Jglam I'll call you in a bit
love	tweets	Bored, making a mothers day card
sadness	tweets	OK - I'm out of here for now. Just popped in to say Hi and check on things. I'll probably head to the guttah later on tonight
love	tweets	I'm coming up with a new plan with my bestie. Oh this one is gonna be great.
fear	tweets	@collective_soul i look forward to your new cd  big fan
fear	tweets	@coopertracy   Sorry, we'll try to keep it down.
love	tweets	@giiab thanks so much! we love fanmail  talk to us anytime
love	tweets	@johnfishlock thanks! I love a good bargain.
fear	tweets	Yao...broken foot...so much for that series  Denver's next
love	tweets	I don't know how to quit you-brokeback mountain
fear	tweets	presentations done, project done, 1 exam done, 3 exams to go!!! I turn 21 this Friday!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to Us  FOR NOT BEIN MAMMAS YET and being lucky enough to live our lives a little 1st
fear	tweets	@Dhympna Link won't open, but I will try it when i have a better connection tomorrow. I'm curious now
fear	tweets	Scream just played on my iPod. First thing that comes to mind, BEAR MACHINEEEEE!!!! Lol
fear	tweets	John, are you sure we aren't mtb?
fear	tweets	@SongzYuuup u welcome babe, kill the show! Yuuupp!
love	tweets	@nikkeexox think you should catch up on your sleep befor you go back to uni haha  goodnight&lt;3
fear	tweets	@sargeabernathy purrrrs.... ooooh that will do
love	tweets	finally finished my marketing project only took me 7 hours..now just hanging out and relaxing
love	tweets	I'm watching The episode 3 Of JONAS OMJ
love	tweets	i'm playing left 4 dead with my friends gilbert and louie  its so fun  happy mothers day to all your moms! )
love	tweets	I have coffee and a Sociology paper to complete. Happy Mothers Day
fear	tweets	@GreenNinja89 after we pissed you off
love	tweets	@Honey3223   Hey Honey  Bunny here  big bunny hugs
sadness	tweets	wondering what misery looks like? look at the faces of all the cubs fans at miller park tonite. sorry chicago friends. tonights our night
love	tweets	getting reading to head home....work on that baby quilt.....can hardly wait to kiss that bald little grandbaby head  55 days to go....
fear	tweets	@djempirical Have to listen to samples to make sure I'm thinking of the same stuff. Loud, odd, Zorn-y stuff as I recall. Not Mr. Bungle.
love	tweets	@Liza_L Thanks,I think your the first girl to say that...besides my mom
fear	tweets	At Green Hill with my phi mu girls for spring formal 2009!!! yeah man! Do it
fear	tweets	New phone pwns
love	tweets	@monchalee *hugs* im glad you got to spend time with your mom.  if your free tonight drop by for some spaghetti
fear	tweets	Ahhh my mommie got me new sheets for my bed  so comfy
love	tweets	Um i have the cutest girlfriend in the world&lt;33.. Kthanks
love	tweets	Eating at Zippys with candace!
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS' DAY!
fear	tweets	@misterdevans Not living, just trying to earn the grocery money.  I do enjoy eating at least once a day!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day mummy
love	tweets	tweep tweep haha
love	tweets	@TheLogistician Thanks for sending the link.
fear	tweets	happy mom's day.  i haven't bought a present for my mom yet. what should i get her?
fear	tweets	Miley Stevens - Waterhouse is at Jhy's house  http://apps.facebook.com/catbook/profile/view/6402509
love	tweets	Oh how i love my family.
love	tweets	@NikiScherzinger Hi Nic, i was so excited to heard that PCD will perform in Jakarta. I hope u will visit my town, Bali as well. Love Ya !
fear	tweets	@saharabloom Don't we all!
love	tweets	Enjoying Mother's Day
love	tweets	there's nothing like a mama's hug in the world.
love	tweets	i feel like a princess.  i love lingerie parties!
love	tweets	@TWLOHA http://twitpic.com/4uyn9 - I NEED THIS. RIGHT NOW. THIS IS ABSOLUTELY MINDDDD BLOWING  I love this. So much!
fear	tweets	Gremlin is asleep after a particularly challenging bedtime. I think it's safe 4 me to go to bed -what a crazy Sat night for me!
love	tweets	@Jacobyshaddix Hii,I freaking love you  I would be the happiest 13 year old girl alive if you replied to this.
fear	tweets	@Barely Got it! Your in the rundown.
sadness	tweets	it gets worse every year and 2010/2011 will be the worst. oh, and 6 months today!
sadness	tweets	Sitting outside in the cold by the ocean with a glass of wine.
fear	tweets	I'm kicking it (though feeling a little sick): alternating talking to friends, gaming, watching the playoffs, and writing an application.
love	tweets	@karenthecrasian @caitlnnnnnnn you can have @thomasfiss ice cream, I'll have @jaykpurdy kiss.
love	tweets	@loverupert13: yes  and ily
fear	tweets	@tweevii_1222  awwh i heard from daniel that you were sick. feel better!
love	tweets	@Cassivellaunus Friends in Ent Industry have said it was really really good.  Hopefully I can convince my wife into a date night  #hhrs
love	tweets	@tyk505 I want 2 see that movie, too!!  Have fun!
love	tweets	Listening to Eminem's new album, got leaked a few days ago #Relapse. Pretty good
fear	tweets	Chillin with my Family. We are getting tacos from Ochoa's, they have the best food in all Washington county
love	tweets	Yes, Rays beat the Red Sox 14-5
love	tweets	Yay - star trek really is &quot;that good&quot;! happy to not be let down  gotta see it on imax now...
fear	tweets	@LTCmusic hehe yeah! Its funny that updating people on the random things you do is so amusing.
love	tweets	I love Metal Gear Solid 4 and Valkyria Chronicles.
love	tweets	I love when my hummingbird comes to visit me at the feeder.
love	tweets	@itsNICKJONAS hi Nick! I really like the serie JONAS  it's awesome! See you soon in the concert! kisses - Marta
love	tweets	@msmommyw She could spend the rest of the night in her room.  At least ONE of you could be happy with a glass of wine.    #surlytween
fear	tweets	I am chillin w/ my homies
love	tweets	@mom_moe Maureen, love to see you here on twitter
love	tweets	Dinner with the fam... I have missed them
fear	tweets	it would sicken most, the number of ways I am able to tweet
sadness	tweets	@nursedoublek have someone help you with the makeup...you gots to go out looking fine  and have another shot
love	tweets	@BluJazmin21 I'm sure its very cute.
love	tweets	About to watch JONAS!  I love DVR! @Jonasbrothers
love	tweets	@SarahInMI sounds like a great way to to start mothers day! Enjoy your day
love	tweets	@summertime_grl thanks night
love	tweets	so star trek pretty much rocked my life ... oh wait, it DID rock my life
love	tweets	@jtimberlake Good luck whit the show tonite man, ill be watching
love	tweets	reunited and it feels so good
love	tweets	@kman_19 I watched a little today! Didn't know you were sick, you did awesome nonetheless! Hope u feel better
fear	tweets	chillen just started on twitter.
love	tweets	I love my boy  he makes me so happy... and looks his sexiest in plain black boxers =p
love	tweets	@DemiJonasMexico Oh, amazing  I have two too and I need to have the third (yn)
love	tweets	@chelseanico Yes! I love him. I have seen the eps so many time that I quote his lines with him.
love	tweets	is loving the fact that Jor can talk and tell me what she wants!! AMAZING
sadness	tweets	@tooshie Interesting people like you should never be bored, Tooshers.
love	tweets	@woahhitsjess hey whats up? did u like the new episode of JONAS?
love	tweets	ahhh ... i don't care, i love this movie in all it's cheesy-ness
fear	tweets	blahh i'm tired and i gotta go to the airport to pick my mom up! &amp;&amp; im bored but on the upside im listening to the backstreet boys
sadness	tweets	missing my hobo/slut/tramp way of life, and cooking for my mother on a saturday night  MAMA I LUV U
fear	tweets	@Linz__marie idk...I feel horrible...and I think my mom would be suspicious since I've been in bed for a straight 2 days,but thnx anyways
sadness	tweets	@grovesyrmi08 sorry about it
love	tweets	@Lilayy hi.wanna see 17 again again with me ;) i'll fly to cali and see it with you
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w5sy - my babe
love	tweets	Dave looks so cute in the dark
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w5t6 - on my bike
love	tweets	Twitter is officially the BEST way to advertise something.
fear	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Momma's to be and Mommas currently.  Have a wonderful day!!!
love	tweets	loves the cancuks  &lt;3
sadness	tweets	@kristenhaulser yuppp. I was gonna get it up top but I didn't. I will soon, but I got 2nd holes instead
fear	tweets	We're practicing our blackjack skills. It doesn't look hopeful.  http://yfrog.com/0l2tsj
fear	tweets	@ReRobb maybe tonights the night to pick it up again?
love	tweets	Amazing day with my boyfriend. He's a good drummer.
fear	tweets	Relaxing.
love	tweets	Ugh fun concert  screen cracked on phone again because it fell... =\
sadness	tweets	i have no idea what im doing and i am completely lost.
fear	tweets	watching hoping for haley
love	tweets	@esmeg discover a whole new beautiful you
fear	tweets	@Joel_Hayes I'm at sharkeez!
fear	tweets	@mstrillian sorry I can't help it, hopefully it rubs off on you.
love	tweets	Home from a day of pampering with mom &amp; dinner with family. Am currently snuggied up on the couch with a glass of wine &amp; a new book. Ahhh
fear	tweets	@slapmaster i know i really wanna do some more stuff im out of school in the next week so ill have a few free days a week... ill hit u up
love	tweets	You make me smile....it will get better, you have to believe that
love	tweets	Good movie.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! Be sure to say I &lt;3 you, Mum.
fear	tweets	@kmaco214 No code I think @sunnieM coined the phrase Hottie Switchfoot Guy for Tim HSG for short  ~wendy~
fear	tweets	Girls night in portland
love	tweets	sweet dreams
fear	tweets	i now know that we've made a difference in each others lives...i feel proud.
fear	tweets	@piticu21 4n? ma rog  never heard of it  esti beat acum? u tweet too much
love	tweets	@rainnwilson E.L.O.  wow, brings back so many happy memories.  LOVE this band!..and yes, I know I'm showing my age but I don't care
love	tweets	i can't stop listening to @Jonasbrothers new single! (paranoid) it's so amazing. i love them.
fear	tweets	@jerrytaft Can you talk to my hubby @actonm and convince him that that's a great present for ALL mommies???
love	tweets	i know when Alexx's debut in Big Butt Magazine comes out...because she loves me
love	tweets	@patricklanglois I simply loved the pic. I'm glad you're happy, that's makes me feel happy too  love you &lt;3
love	tweets	hommmmmme! good day
love	tweets	Going to the Gold Coast for mothers day lunch
fear	tweets	@therealkyra awww what's the matter, kyra? we @ SugarLoot miss you
fear	tweets	needs a non-long distance boyfriend/girlfriend. Watching Sonny with A Chance
love	tweets	@Mr_Bloggerific OK...you do that.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there!
sadness	tweets	was an international student today  had sooo much fun at sixflags with friends i don't know well enough!
love	tweets	Whoever u are and wherever u go always remember where u come from
love	tweets	Just saw Ghost of Girlfriends Past  it was actually really cute for a total chick flick. Mattew McConaughey is smexy
love	tweets	@evansdave thanks man!  I appreciate it!  You rock sir.
fear	tweets	Watching the fight video.  Still shots of me breaking his nose to come soon.  Austin D. has some pretty good commentary.
fear	tweets	@rexharrislive Thank you very much Rex for FF
love	tweets	in rye..happy mothers day mums  ily mummy  lol
love	tweets	I love my hair blowin in the wind
fear	tweets	@njshoreboy89  and what did i do to u kk thanks
fear	tweets	@jakeofficial How about give golf lessons?? AND sing to your student taking lessons??    (JAKEOWEN2009 live &gt; http://ustre.am/2S1Y)
fear	tweets	@winebratsf What are those barrels made of? Hey pass that barrel
love	tweets	@pleasurep i love that song
fear	tweets	Movin into the Big Room
fear	tweets	@qwe4423 ?. Pick up that, as fast you can!
fear	tweets	the free fillin' app on my ipod is fun, im addicted
fear	tweets	@verwon and now I am starting to feel really old.
love	tweets	planning for mothers day special for my beloved mother
sadness	tweets	Work, work, work and why did I get so tired all of a sudden. @PaulAros , nicole told me you say 'Hi' aww she was so enthusiastic  hi paul
love	tweets	@h0ney_ I had curry shrimp yesterday lol I love seafood
fear	tweets	Done a bump out and now back in bed seemingly unable to muster the energy to get up again  Sundays are great.
fear	tweets	@diana_truong sunbae* my bad jst scratch wht i said  im talking nonsense here.. lol!!! enjoy the perfs
love	tweets	@TuCheInvoco thank you
fear	tweets	@barnaby3 Did I miss you going to The Killers or is it soon? Are you excited? I remembered I needed to ask you
love	tweets	At dinner with an amazing person i like to call Mom
love	tweets	really fun day  gahhh i want my new phone this razr is killin me
fear	tweets	clean up day was awesome  portuguese feast was EHHH. lol rain is icky and thunder;lightning is scary
fear	tweets	@MissLaniSasha lmfao!!! Yea anyone?? Please?? We're really pretty!!!
fear	tweets	its so hard to get mum to answer the phone!! happy mothers day to her anyways..
love	tweets	I tripped over a rubbish bin at Warehouse Stationary just before. Not a great Mothers' Day so far, but I'm thinking it will improve
fear	tweets	About to embark on a large tour of bars for a project.  Hopefully I won't die from alcohol poisoning
fear	tweets	thinks tonight couldn't have gone more perfect.
fear	tweets	@purplish08 hey! Sorry I didn't see ur message to me
fear	tweets	@GreeGreece oh wait your in Greece, I'm in the U.S of course you think differently
love	tweets	Happy Mothers May to my Mak   Love you always! XOXO.
sadness	tweets	@RebeccaNavarro @banditTA00 sorry, I'm back.. food was calling my name..lol..all is good here  and HI! , sorry I haven't said sooner lol
fear	tweets	Alix's graduation party!
fear	tweets	@lachrist5067 72-65 Cavs! The score is and was! LOL
love	tweets	hubby is snoring!  but I still love him
love	tweets	what a wonderful day...i am going to sleep so well tonight
sadness	tweets	Happy Mother's Day MM mums!!!! hope you all have a lovely day  #mamam
love	tweets	@Carrie_King no worries. Miss you mucho
fear	tweets	got so totally lost that I had to pay for a taxi to get me back to where I was supposed to be. Yeah, something like that, lol.
love	tweets	KICKIN BAK......NEED 2 DO MY HW.....I MISS U BABE  LOLZ
love	tweets	My purple pusrse is pretty  someone tell Katie Holmes!
fear	tweets	@lyracole P.S. The &quot;duh&quot; was directed towards myself...
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day!  miss my mom so much... Always will be the best mom ever!
love	tweets	@Mr_Bloggerific HA!  Nice try.  I will outright deny any accusations.  But good luck with that...
love	tweets	@danielshockk coooooooool, yes, CIWWAF are awesome.
fear	tweets	Just chillin at home
fear	tweets	@iGaia Nope!  She can travel all she wants when SHE can pay for it.
fear	tweets	@V_Simmons everyone has their mistakes to make and lessons to learn. Don't let the negativity get to you.
fear	tweets	@brentleary what with the Force MD Tender love how could not love those guys
love	tweets	@mtomsjr Thank u hun. Say the same to yours.  Good Night. LIQUID DREAMS
love	tweets	@SolaiGWC *whew* Ok good.I really don't want that too happen. All my friends loved it. Can't wait to talk about it monday in class.
love	tweets	@curtsmith Enjoy! Family trumps everything
fear	tweets	@JennysMyName baha, i'm gonna have to find some!  i dont think we took any D: but i'm gonna find some!
love	tweets	Just getting home from work...finally
fear	tweets	so Roman is now on pain killers and some LQ meds. Thanks Jess for agreeing to go get him yogurt before you go out!
fear	tweets	singing songs and filming movies  what i do best
fear	tweets	Hehe nah just doing this and watching Ace of Cakes with @jlsegarra while our 4-legged &quot;kids&quot; run around. Couldn't ask for more
love	tweets	@ykitatequila OH YEAH &amp; U TOO  ALL 4 OF US hehe &lt;3
fear	tweets	Speaking to my new tweeples.... getting acquainted with them... If you've never spoke to me.. Do so now
love	tweets	Pub crawling through NE pdx
fear	tweets	Excellent, excellent movie!  Star Trek, that is.
fear	tweets	@MeganWrappe Well, guess we just make a pretty great pair.  So, I don't think our birthday date is going to happen. :'(
love	tweets	@Brandi408 thank you!
love	tweets	@Oprah Happy mother's day Oprah.  You're a mom to your girls too!
sadness	tweets	With alex
fear	tweets	I've Got An Urge To Make Music Like Massively.. I'm Going To The Studio
fear	tweets	@fankri haha! thanks, Tiff   it went well, but they WORE ME OUT!!! lol. im too old for this ;)
love	tweets	@alyssaisntcool hahah  i loveeee him though.
fear	tweets	Watching Gross Point Blank.
love	tweets	@CChiron Dude you rock
love	tweets	@cassfern yes. and it was REALLY good. even though i am not into sci fi i loved it. &amp; haha, i know.
love	tweets	Nice place to eat in sao paulo, brazil  http://twitgoo.com/28hh
love	tweets	enjoying my coffee with this super delicious cookie
love	tweets	@petrilude OMG, you have curly hair! Too cute!
love	tweets	watching supernatural  those boys can hunt me any day &lt;3 haha
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w70j - Left: This is your brain. Right: This is your brain on drugs.
love	tweets	chilin with my little brotherrrr  oday was amazing xP
fear	tweets	@SECTORLI: just had my debut on Thursday @ The Gallery Lounge! It was fun... can't wait to do the next one!!
fear	tweets	@SusanCrenshaw Uh oh!  Hope nothing too damaged.
love	tweets	listening to ECHO by Gorilla Zoe ahh love that song
sadness	tweets	Today Dan bought me Bio Dome AND the Reality Bites Soundtrack! Needless to say he gets MAYJAH points!  Also, my tummy is not happy. Boo.
sadness	tweets	having a creative party with me, myself, and moi
love	tweets	@char_anderson hehe   fun tweets !
love	tweets	@mileycyrus airsoft is so much fun! i play with my brothers and it's a great bonding experience.
love	tweets	@ClawdiaClawdia hey you weirdo! haha jk! I love you!
fear	tweets	@SalioElSol08 Haha most def ^__^ Rob a bank with me so i could get all the swedish fishes in the world
fear	tweets	'Don't call your mother, 'cause now we're partners in crime.' -KP
love	tweets	lmfaoooo i fucking love this showwwww
love	tweets	Nice PC Authority review of the Tivo VOD service here: http://bit.ly/Ps7y2  I'm still loving my Tivo
fear	tweets	@marqueA2 Amazing.  Thereby proving we cannot believe anything we see
love	tweets	@PRGabbi AWW thanks hopefully it is
fear	tweets	Is with our dog at the doggy park!
love	tweets	happy mothers day. @jadeeisabel oh and no i havent read it yet, will do now
love	tweets	Ha. J perfect timing on that message, the cure just came on
sadness	tweets	gosh! i'm freakin' bored! talk to me!
love	tweets	shawty next to me like hella good oowwwww
fear	tweets	watching Star Trek and next to watch it at the movie theater 'cause the movie is really worth it...
fear	tweets	k might take long then a minute then
fear	tweets	@khalen it was good. Next time you get oohed you know where to go!
love	tweets	iii loove davedays
love	tweets	@TaeJun stellar  happy ma's day to them
fear	tweets	Working on several book projects that are due to be released within the next few months.  I need an extra pair of hands!  It's all good...
love	tweets	@harleyfatboy88b you're welcome
fear	tweets	Had a nice dinner with the hubby and now on our way home  45 min drive out of the city. *sigh*
love	tweets	Thinking about my mother, and all the amazing mothers I know
love	tweets	AK tonight with the lady and friends
love	tweets	@deanlusk I love catching people singing in their cars. Even better if they're dancing
love	tweets	is ready for summer!!!
fear	tweets	@couponprincess Yes!!!! you me @brandyellen and @mkdb won the 4 that were given away    #sigjeans
love	tweets	@zactak I know!  I loved it.
fear	tweets	@kiwi_kikireestl nooo. you were on my yahoo account. hmm. i wanna say b2k days. idk fo'sho
fear	tweets	right now, im on the Internet Cafe
fear	tweets	Why is @MRCRISIS scared or @Mskatrina25 lmao.. Someone pls tell me!!
love	tweets	We just crossed into the golden state, its nice being home
love	tweets	@fatbellybella lol cute.  BTW Happy Mother's Day lady
sadness	tweets	@TheSpencerSmith I'm part of a religion called People-With-Good-Taste-In-Music. We don't celebrate Jonas Brothers Day.
fear	tweets	@karramandi Where r u Yvonne?? Haven't seen u in the google groups in a day or so. Miss ya.
love	tweets	@deekgeek Awwwwwww. You two are the cutest.  And gods, I LOVE your hair.
fear	tweets	@tatumeubanks I think you were dreaming that!  However, my memory does suck so maybe not
fear	tweets	is almost over the legal limit of db at the garage.
love	tweets	I make delicious pasta
love	tweets	@imjstsayin lol  damn...I love those things too
love	tweets	Wishing all the Mom's in the world a VERY HAPPY AND RELAXING MOTHERS DAY. May you get to spend the day with your feet up being pampered
love	tweets	tomorrow's mother's day  me n my sis gonna make an onigiri for our mom~!! its gonna be so kewl!! cant wait for tomorrow &gt;_&lt;
love	tweets	@MandyyJirouxx Oohh Yaay like it !  ?    Love ya
fear	tweets	@superbjorn as always  how are you?
love	tweets	@jayde_nicole http://twitpic.com/4t6qx - i have the exact same pic except it's my hubby &amp; my chihuahua tucker   very cute.
fear	tweets	Enjoying the heck out of spending time with Amanda.  Do i really have to go back tomorrow?
love	tweets	@acforbes wow!! blessings to you my friend...what awesome words this beautiful Saturday...
love	tweets	@amberchase more gifts for you
fear	tweets	@mlomb hi, the parody for iPhone is hysterical, not because it's funny, but because one cannot play the video on iPhone
love	tweets	Have beautiful dreams all, I'm off to snuggle down with my beautiful babies as they are done with the outdoors.
fear	tweets	Going to bed after the CAVS game  Don't judge me LOL
sadness	tweets	@NA617_NKOTB LOL you r not a loser u drove 8 hours in a day.. U need rest  of was it 2 days? I'm still tired lol
fear	tweets	Lifetime movies are lame.  That's for you, Q!
love	tweets	@onesweeterlife  Great!  I was hoping to run under 40mins and ended up doing 39:07  Woo hoo!  Gotta love the C25k
fear	tweets	@meganwest no we had to go to malibu to find a beach!
love	tweets	happy mommah's day to your moms  http://plurk.com/p/stqya
love	tweets	I wanna be like vocabulary donna, all in Chicago.    I need to put wu tang 8 diagrams on my ipod  that CD reminds me of someone special
love	tweets	@cranberryquill. welcome to Twitter!!!    Love you!!!  Can't wait to see you next month
love	tweets	@retrorewind PLS! Play Journey Don't stop believin' By Journey for @Etown_Jenn  THANKS!!
love	tweets	mine too &lt;3
love	tweets	chinese food = love. yess im happy
fear	tweets	(bullhorn] tell ur friends 2 follow me  come onnnnnnnnnnnn ppl
love	tweets	Watched the White House dinner speech by Barack. He's just so many kinds of awesome!
love	tweets	@LisaPreston Thank you for the follow friday love
love	tweets	Im soo happy Kellz is back from TN, we bout hang out  all the time
fear	tweets	@ThinkReferrals oh man I'm jealous!  just got it?
sadness	tweets	@zouljiin That is the best sticker EVER. Also. I dig your hair. It's gotten long since I've seen you last.
fear	tweets	@laurie_pooh what kind of party do we got going now?
fear	tweets	mmmm chocky cake in the oven.. smells delicious
fear	tweets	&quot;Its a calander.&quot;Calendar!&quot; COLLANDER!&quot; Bahaha, That part was hilarious, of course, the whole thing was hilarious
love	tweets	at BIF.... i love this buliding....
fear	tweets	Spending time with the fammmmm. (: hopefully, going to pay my bill soon...
love	tweets	my mom watched my new video and she actually LOL  Love her! xoxo http://bit.ly/16w6zV
fear	tweets	@danielledeleasa yeeah!! me too! it's amazing!!! I'm freaking out lol
love	tweets	i had a really good day today
fear	tweets	If u want to change the fruits, u will first have to change the roots. If u want to change the visible u must first change the invisible
love	tweets	All right, time for happy face.
fear	tweets	speechless
fear	tweets	I know I have lots of emails to answer! I will be home tomorrow
fear	tweets	is hungryyyyyyy!! going to eat traditional indian food...the pakistani way. woowoo!  hahaha! &gt;[_()\/3
love	tweets	Headed to eat with my hubby n my mommy!!  So ready to have some drinks...
fear	tweets	Home empty handed.  No comics found today.  I shall now indulge in my cupcakes from Magnolia Bakery.
sadness	tweets	@birdsall Sorry about that. I got behind on followers and am still catching up.  I follow folks that @ me (including you
love	tweets	good night people   sweet dreams
love	tweets	just came back from a nice bike ride with her family and is now refreshed thanks to a shower
love	tweets	I love my mom! Happy Mother's Day, mommies
sadness	tweets	@HuMBush just nothing perfect in life, darn it!
fear	tweets	Okay now that i will not be able to sleep tonight what should we do
love	tweets	@Jennettemccurdy http://twitpic.com/4w7yp - Haha, she looks a little like me. I'd get ecstatic if and when I meet you.
love	tweets	best part of notting hill is on!!  &quot;daft prick&quot; haha love it.
sadness	tweets	Feelin really awful. Having mono sux so much. Omg...listening to music
sadness	tweets	@NiecieD Nice idea for a M-I-L gift. Did you crochet it? Good idea about looking online.  There are Youtube videos showing lefty crochet.
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 I just want to say: Both you,Taylor Swift, and Hayley Williams have a great and lovely voice!
fear	tweets	Wats shakin out there y'all ? I'm starting to get nice now,
love	tweets	twittering, texting, and ipoding. i love the invention of mutitasking!
fear	tweets	@BayoArigbon what you took your bracket off... ? And now it's time for bed !
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
love	tweets	@fancyfantastic you know I love you.
love	tweets	@Jennettemccurdy http://twitpic.com/4w7yp - this is sweet.  im loving those bracelets btw
fear	tweets	Sitting at the bonfire, hoping the skies will clears i can use my telescope.
love	tweets	@summertime_grl love your new profile pic
fear	tweets	@tesser10 Those are the things that mean the world
fear	tweets	@theWaif I was wondering about your sanity for a bit there, dear
fear	tweets	GOOD MORNING TWEETER WORLD!
sadness	tweets	Oh, as usual, I should warn my new followers that I tend to over-tweet during #canucks games. Apologies in advance.
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 Taylor Swift I think you're so pretty it makes my heart melt everytime I see your face.
love	tweets	Happy mothrs day 2 ; all thaa moms outt thr  *
fear	tweets	@KatiaDominos loll , of course me tooo  &amp; i love their new song toooo ?
love	tweets	happy mom's day  http://plurk.com/p/stsir
love	tweets	@chellanglo *hugs* love you, MamaBear!  Happy Mom's Day!!!! (in case I don't see you around tomorrow)
sadness	tweets	just got back from the Sing It Loud concert // FUCKIN AMAZING
love	tweets	@Lady_Luck13 they are SO cute
love	tweets	Happy mother's day!!! oh, I love my mom.. hehehe... happy mom's day!!
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4w8l1 - Haaha, my bangs are kinda long..? oops
love	tweets	@evlover0327 You are extremely clever my dear.
fear	tweets	@shereenzangana That was fantastic! Thank you
fear	tweets	@Nyblaque - halla!!! doing ok- got a cold but trying to ignore it  how about you?
love	tweets	spending the night with mom and Tommy.. just ordered Pizza Hut.. yum!
sadness	tweets	@haldira awww too bad I won't be there - I'd entertain the thought of entering
fear	tweets	he's back! meeting him in 40 mins
sadness	tweets	@theDebbyRyan How does it look like a Ninja Tutle?!  xo lol
sadness	tweets	Yeahh cenare lo mismo qe Rosher! ok ok Roger  wiii
love	tweets	@amandabynes omg in your pic youu look so cuute !
love	tweets	@kaybhart You WILL be succesful  Love You!
love	tweets	@tycrisp hi ty. good morning. happy mom's day to your mom. i love that your entire family is adding me on FB! i love 'em, very sweet!
fear	tweets	@TrueBlue9 Venus is my fav character, too! LOL I think b/c she's strong, successful, and beautiful.
sadness	tweets	I'm hungry. And single.  heading to the golfing range soon.
love	tweets	So glad to be home with my family, quite glad I get to see @iflyhighsky in a week. Lots of things to be happy about.
love	tweets	haha. i love you too aimeeeeeee!
fear	tweets	@iampritty sweetie pie, buttercup, married ppl share hehehehehe.....this includes ur shoe collection  I am trading UP!
love	tweets	Why do you think people say, &quot;save the drama fo yo mama?&quot; I'm sure even yo mama wouldn't wanna listen to ur drama. Ode to mother's day!
fear	tweets	@monicacai is over
fear	tweets	@DJSpencer19  true. i think its important 2 be sensitive 2 it when we relate 2 others. empathy. a reminder we cant judge a book by a cover
fear	tweets	@watsjaydoin I've got 18 yr @ home &amp; 26 out the house &amp; they're always here! AND they bring FRIENDS! WHY?  Hope you have a blessed Day!
love	tweets	@michelereinach Molly was born on my birthday!!!! *cue twilight zone music*
love	tweets	wish all the mother in the flatworld have a happy &amp; awesome mother's day
fear	tweets	btw @austincarlile, @jaxinhall, @philipmanansala, and @youngfuego, i ordered some of yer merch yesterday.!  &lt;33333333333
love	tweets	@mexiabill I love it as well!
fear	tweets	Is responding to an email.
love	tweets	Now I like #startrek. Personal feels that #Startrek movie is better than #xmen.
love	tweets	awwww..I love him! His car was soooo CUTE tonight!! I love me some Carl..My 10yr old is sad now..LOL..
love	tweets	Had a great family party for our 14 y/o!  What a great family that God gave us!  Esp those we chose!
fear	tweets	@scarybunnies Abrams has his quirks for sure.   I'll summarize my post like this: decent flick, but NOT a &quot;Star Trek&quot; story.
love	tweets	I really really like the song Love Story by Taylor Swift
fear	tweets	umm i failed 3 classes - mom's beating my ass in school on monday . RIP Nira .  &quot; yayyy &quot; (the &quot;yay&quot; was a sense of sarcasm) -___-
fear	tweets	@BruceOCz Thanks for the advice! Went to the doctor's and slept a lot yesterday  Must be the meds.
fear	tweets	Just got a new Ipod.  Life's Good.
fear	tweets	@mikewat that picture is priceless! i think @ericharlan might start #sharetub
fear	tweets	@minhteeeefresh haiiii sankQ i'm fineee ima js get a checkup cos my rib hurts LOL idk but i shall be fine ~ thanks
love	tweets	@theoreo i don't want to do anything specific, i just want to see you and puppy!
love	tweets	@sonya415 hotness personified
sadness	tweets	My blackberry ran out of juice in the middle of the day...it was miserable! No twitter or email at my beck and call, truly awful
love	tweets	@moncho33 A pues bien small world small world. yo amo a la chiquita esa. she is such a great friend.
love	tweets	just made a cake for mi madre  i'm goooooddd!
love	tweets	@dgottesman Happy Birthday!
love	tweets	@gush4plush Congratulations! Check that one off your to do list!
love	tweets	Teaching people the beauty of twitter
sadness	tweets	@amyxstftk actually, i really do. mostly when i forget to take off my makeup before bed
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 TAYLOR! are you back in Nashville now..or LA? well, how was your trip? did ya have fun? love ya girly!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the mums in my life and those that are not
fear	tweets	Nooo, I'm not in love.  I'm just developing a crush. A small one. Heehee.  My second one. Shadduppp.
fear	tweets	@sjowen I had a double cheeseburger and fries from The Golden Arches....I will be sicker than a dog tomorrow.
fear	tweets	This is fun !  haha re guy from all American rejects looks like he's on crack!!
fear	tweets	i freaking LOVED star trek  now we're watching xmen.
love	tweets	@EdenQueenBean sure, as long as you said where they're from! glad you like them
love	tweets	@chanterene feel better my love i will bring u some soul food make u feel good
love	tweets	Please everyone to vote for me to become the next Maxim Coors Caddy girl...only takes a few minutes  http://tinyurl.com/dloeyu
love	tweets	I need to change my ways, instead of just being weak. I love @ddlovato she's a great role model
sadness	tweets	ugh i wish this school year would go faster so i can move on in life
fear	tweets	Finally made it to JP Licks in Coolidge Corner for some Oreo soft serve   http://twitpic.com/4w9pe
love	tweets	Writing my Music Lit final paper on Mozart's Eine kleine nashtmusik. Mom is giving me a hand...and I'm actually having a GREAT time
love	tweets	mmmmmm mcdonalds coffee is soooooo good.....maybe going to hookah tonight with the abbster
love	tweets	nothing better than to have your Grandaughter smile and nothing feels better than that big hug!! Grandkids, what a hoot!
love	tweets	@LeesonDoyle Haha, AWESOME! And, clearly, only Trinity is awesome enough to have access to it!
love	tweets	@AnalystAlterEgo LOL! Yeah, well, same applies to the grocery store.
fear	tweets	Pictures of Cassie from the Crawfish Boil make me smile real big  Also, my desktop is still fail. Ultimate fail. It hates me.
fear	tweets	@CeeTheTruthy what kind of food Celli? I'm following you now
fear	tweets	Hmm...Whilst, walking through the city I received an inviataion into an SUV Limo via some prom fellows... Don't they have dates? Oh boys!
sadness	tweets	watching &quot;That Thing You Do&quot; on Comcast. Missing my boo like crrrrrazy!
sadness	tweets	@ShebaBaby should be a rebroadcast of last weeks Pacquiao-Hatton fight. Don't plan your night around it.  I've said too much already.
love	tweets	michelle is a hot mama with chichis grande
fear	tweets	@sweetsheilx Same to your mom too pril
love	tweets	Alright! Party was a success! We all had fun, &amp; now it's over
love	tweets	mmmmmm, late night Brusters ice cream! om nom nom nom
love	tweets	Happy Mothers' Day to my mom and all the mothers in the world
sadness	tweets	@MeggieMouse what are you going 40 hours with out? i'd say my computer or my phone but i did that last week and i didnt care at all..
sadness	tweets	Sinse i had dis thing..not 1 reply not 1 message. Nuffin! pshh who cares..i know im special  X
love	tweets	don't ya just love a free night to catch up on your DVR shows? ANTM here I come...ha ha!
sadness	tweets	i had the best day ever! i missed him. more tomorrow too
sadness	tweets	Waiting tables is exhausting! My feet are so sore. Note to self: never become a waitress. Also, kudos to George for the awesome tri-tip
fear	tweets	@blindllama i can do all that  but wha would i be learning?
fear	tweets	Back fr Doctor &amp; officially hv v dry eyes ...  but at least nothing serious
love	tweets	@Tellybelly1 Aww...thanks! He's the best husband ever. He really is. I'm so lucky!  Hope you're having a wonderful Saturday evening!
fear	tweets	@OfficialAthenaR haha. It does have a nice ring to it (: Lets get used to that. ok! iloveyoutoo.
love	tweets	having a great mothers day
fear	tweets	@debtguide Cool Guide.. My best Tip.. Do NOT Use Them Unless Absolutely Needed !!!
love	tweets	Zzzz... I'm taking my mom out for breakfast tomorrow!  Shall be quite a treat.
fear	tweets	@StampGarden PRETTY! I hope I win
fear	tweets	live chat soooon most likely.
fear	tweets	@MelvinJames hey there.  How are you. Pleasant surprise
sadness	tweets	I'm jumping off the nearest bridge if I can't have it
fear	tweets	Whoops! Start Trek,...not Start! Duh.
love	tweets	happy sunday all
fear	tweets	omg having so much fun watcing house bunny, courto isa a ledge for sending me link  &lt;3
love	tweets	@kikkitigerwolf @FranciscoIV Oh, and the fan is put together &amp; love it!
sadness	tweets	@Strabismus I try to ignore..just noticing new M.O.'s . I LOVE Sonic drinks. Cherry limeade mmm
love	tweets	@sheasylvia Sometimes I wish Twitter had Facebook's &quot;like&quot; just so I could give you a thumbs up. Great job either way  - I suck too btw
fear	tweets	@titothebuilder how crappy for him
love	tweets	@taylorswift13 i love Paramore!  welcome back
fear	tweets	@Sij8 2002 - the TSX is nice just cuz it's a new car- handles nice but doesn't have the horses of the TL-S
love	tweets	Feeling special @ looking4him first guy to give me flowers.
love	tweets	@LaurenConrad Hey Lauren...I'm a huge fan! I hope you are having fun at Wango Tango!!
sadness	tweets	@xxyouSHiNExx hey! haha, yep! that was me! negative comments get me reallllyyy mad; so i always defend them!  haha!
love	tweets	Just got done watching Bedtime Stories! Love that movie!
sadness	tweets	Arrested in the hotel
love	tweets	@christinerose Congratulations on winning the Indie Award
fear	tweets	@lovetf Alright, sorry. But I think you should go anyways
love	tweets	going to bed. i love the jonas brothers!! the last time me and megan were together was the weekend of the premiere of JONAS!! -lauryn &lt;33
sadness	tweets	76 long and painful miles today.  knees ache.  approaching 50 years is rough. not accepting it well.  3 glasses of draft helped.
love	tweets	@mrskutcher you guys are an awesome couple
love	tweets	Sad thing is samsam loves my sexy crooked body! And she wants to sex it now
love	tweets	@mrskutcher Happy Mother's Day!!
love	tweets	@sweetangieollie ooh a storm, that's always welcome news  Happy Mothers Day!
fear	tweets	@TR0se school and work that's it really. what about u? still in sac? or am I a tittle late
fear	tweets	@inJenious Pics? Ah, I'll probably see you at work at some point... Hopefully b4 it grows out too much
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all you mums out there
love	tweets	@purplefrogcat Happy Mother's Day to you
love	tweets	Happy mothers day to all the mums!
love	tweets	loves her mummy with everything she has. always and forever mummy dearest. (love to ma and nanny too,  xx)
love	tweets	Fort Greene Brooklyn Flea was lovely! - looking forward to next weekend already
fear	tweets	@jo_dazzles Well tonight would be a good time to watch.
fear	tweets	@TokiWartooth  Thanks! My mom's seed is larger and already cracked (and planted). I hope Avalina isn't a dud!
fear	tweets	Baltimore beat the Yankees  @Ashley094
love	tweets	Just snappy's delivered some tea and ice cream. I love my sister.
fear	tweets	@15minsofmetal sweet, I'm trying to earn my crown for gluten free baking!
love	tweets	Tom graduated today
fear	tweets	Just joined. &lt;_&lt; Not even sure if any of my friends have Twitters, maybe I'll just be a celeb stalker o.o
sadness	tweets	We need to ban together and recognize that we aren't always going to agree, but that's ok  #tcot
love	tweets	@emelgeek Btw happy mom's day to hannah and your mom and han's mom! Yey! Moms unite! This is your day
fear	tweets	now the party begins  prob wont be tweeting again tonight even tho im guessing we'll be up for hours, gnight everyone
sadness	tweets	I got me a little too much sun today
love	tweets	@iandstewart I can honestly say that thematic had a big part in my blogging enthusiam ~ I love being able to do what I want
love	tweets	Steel Magnolias gets me every time.. SNIFF... LOL!!! V and B make my days and nights brighter too
love	tweets	So happy. Great, glowy, ravey, beery night. Now smokey, pizzary night with cool friends. And I love liz  x
love	tweets	@enderwillsaveme that's such a good movie!!!!
love	tweets	watching chelsea lately!  loveeeee her &lt;3
love	tweets	Congrats @msdaisy425...so proud of you girl
love	tweets	@RSC_Girl123 Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers have my eternal love. Benjamin.  ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
sadness	tweets	I wasn't going to go out tonight but looks like I'll be heading over to Main Street
sadness	tweets	@BeccaChan Happy Birthday!  sorry for the blank one my sister messed me up.
love	tweets	@SamBradleyTN i looooove me some star trek. runs in the family
fear	tweets	@AmyyVee didn't make it to 1000 but I smoked her.  She's at 60 and I'm at 260.  thank you! How r u?
love	tweets	@saaphyri Girl, you're crazy... I LOVE! you.  Hahaha, and I GOT! yo' Lp Chap.
love	tweets	At the end, i loved my night
love	tweets	@kirstiealley ROFLMFAO!!!! You love us better, don't you!
sadness	tweets	Just talked to @samgrover's cute grandma on the phone.  She only speaks Hindi-not my best language-but somehow we manged
fear	tweets	@GetReadySetGo thanks!!  I'm a fabric addict lately - I've bought soooo much!
love	tweets	@mattgreen110 Yah, I know. I appreciate it a ton
love	tweets	@bkGirlFriday thanks! You're the first one to wish me a happy mother's day
love	tweets	@bendthelight I heart you girls!! Let's hang out soon!
love	tweets	Watching my fav movie...Two Can Play That Game! &quot;Ever notice how men start to act up around Spring time?&quot; Shante Smith
fear	tweets	At the movies. . . About to watch Star Trek!
love	tweets	I don't feel any pressure right now...    Happy Mother's Day people...
love	tweets	crazy in love sfoot cover 4 that song is awesome better than the original well at least that's what i think
love	tweets	today was a lovely day! I had fun with @sarzp and @harryv401 this evening!
sadness	tweets	@sharkattack44 i wish there was an &quot;i like&quot; option (like fb) for things like this
love	tweets	loving life lately!!!!  Looking forward to going to see Samantha! Hanging out with Natalie right now!
love	tweets	Saw Star Trek yesterday and Wolverine today....loved them both, Jackman abs and ass and Spock ears
fear	tweets	Happy Mother's Day one day early to all moms everywhere---you deserve to have your own day.
love	tweets	@jonaskevin I loved it! You guys are amazing!
fear	tweets	@christyharrison iloveyoumoreeee
love	tweets	@OklahomaStar Good luck 2 u and the babies
fear	tweets	@AboveAllFabric  Hells Yeah. Block away. Just not sweet lil' ole me.
fear	tweets	@BPDINOKC Thanks!
love	tweets	loves GOSSIP GIRL Episode 23, The Wrath of Con
love	tweets	SUPER BUENO FTW!!! I am so proud of you guys.
love	tweets	@David_Henrie have fun dude. Love u on &quot;wizards of waverly place&quot;!!!
fear	tweets	as we were disembarking @ Tswassen we saw a pod of killer whales ^^ i'd just finished pointing out that i'd never seen bc killer whales.
love	tweets	bye! off to the movies with jake
love	tweets	@musicislife2010 Really? Bahaha. I love that you relate people to that. haha.
fear	tweets	Got to reconnect with some dear friends tonight.  I am so lucky to have so many great people in my life.  I am blessed
love	tweets	I dedicated today to Mothers Day videos because without Moms (and Dads) we wouldn't be here tweeting.
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wave - aww since its mothers day
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!!!  I'm at the beach with my family. It's a warm, clear night with a beautiful full moon...
fear	tweets	diiinner  its sooo cold right here D:
fear	tweets	@tiffrobyn lol what did Perez say now?? please don't make me actually go look
love	tweets	@manoyjoe: thanks. happy mother's day to your mom as well.
love	tweets	Mom's day dinner was awesome -  can't beat a taco loco - good times
fear	tweets	today was alot of fun. i love my family ,sammy hernandez and caitlin hughes.  goodnight!
love	tweets	@Harley_Dude Very nice. Good night
love	tweets	my Mom rocks.
love	tweets	@TheLonely perfect song!
love	tweets	@kimberlyhopkins probably...why not!
fear	tweets	@andylevy p.s. i heart your face
sadness	tweets	I jus planted a garden in my backyard
love	tweets	@wethedan its my birthday too  but its the 10th of may right now for me.. and its probably the 9th for you.. happy birthday anyway
love	tweets	@mattlogelin http://twitpic.com/4wb52 - Such a pretty baby!
love	tweets	@eritchardson  &amp;, i'm sure mom'll have more good food waiting for you at home.  enjoy the good ole bed &amp; your OWN room with no roommates.
love	tweets	@mariramos hola Mari. Happy Mother's Day! Enjoy the family and the beach
love	tweets	Cant wait to see my boy tomorrow
love	tweets	Signing off. Mom's day tomorrow.
fear	tweets	@govinda108 um that's really scary, please be safe!  Btw ill be in orlando next week
fear	tweets	@karleigh Can't wait, you &amp; Katie always end up with some of the best interviews..
love	tweets	Tomorrow is Mother's Day. I hope everybody got their mom something awesome...or at least calls to say hello
fear	tweets	@jt nope not yet. but we have to be out of this one before we close. we are closing on both the same day this week
fear	tweets	watching &quot;Steel Magnolias&quot; then going to bed. I have to babysit at one tomorrow. then give mommy her gift!  night, &lt;3 peace.love.jonas
fear	tweets	My husband thinks my Twittering makes me a creeper... whatever.
love	tweets	retweet please  awesome kawaii, anime and cosplay items: http://bit.ly/cUjXg
love	tweets	Ok. Night sweet people  I'll look for ya tomorrow
love	tweets	@brian09 Hi, im following you now and i just wanted to say I LOVE FRIENDS.
fear	tweets	@vivid13 Good for you! I don't think I'll be joining later. I'm hyper as hell, though. WHEE!
sadness	tweets	lots of decisions to make...i need an assistant/cook/nanny/chauffer lol lol but 4 real!
fear	tweets	@HomeBizLiz thats rough. hubby had knee surgery but it did help him in the end. Let us know the results. We'll keep him in our prayers
fear	tweets	@andrewgoldstein 11 30s way early! anyway nigth night  love you!
love	tweets	In a @HANSON mood.. Listening to the older stuff... This Time Around. Not that old but old enough.
love	tweets	@chriskoon aw, sure thing  their in my thoughts and prayers.
love	tweets	@venzann I have yet to understand any sentence u have ever typed,but it's kinda fun-like learning a foreign language&amp;I love to quote u.
love	tweets	Quick thoughts. Tired. Happy. Satisfied. Entertained. Excited. Oh... and a bit in love
fear	tweets	Greg back in the top 10. This is why I love Nascar.
fear	tweets	@ladybee_5652 ... =D ok wassup
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wbn6 - my hubby and his adoarble baby brother
fear	tweets	@alchristopher i know u r!  i wont be there til the 6pm service..will u be there?
sadness	tweets	@mbulatao oh no!!!! i hope its not too baad, tell mya i hope she's gets better soon
love	tweets	@devilishdelish awww, that's cute.
love	tweets	arriving at home now.. had a great time with friends today
love	tweets	Tonight, will be a good night  &lt;3
love	tweets	Ok I'm going to go read my new Demonata book,so later  &lt;3
fear	tweets	Just got in a fight and kicked out of the bar. At least I knocked him out. Have a fat lip though.  Pulled another number
fear	tweets	@wordcharmer pffftt! You know how I like to stay busy!  I'm Awesome (and sober...dang)! How are you??
love	tweets	@AlMaddin  enjoy ur night
fear	tweets	is hanging with Bryant&amp;&amp;Hailee, possibly Lafayette tonight. 'nd i don't know why i keep updating this because i have 0 followers
love	tweets	@trswift hahahaha nice. i gave up on bio cos idk what the hell i'm doing, so hello chem
love	tweets	The power is out! I can't seeeeeeee!!  I love storms!
love	tweets	gave my mother her mother's day present. she loved it
love	tweets	@ddlovato aw! she's super cute!!!
love	tweets	@zefrank have a lovely weekend
fear	tweets	is feelin it
fear	tweets	@thebadhousewife  Goodnight.
fear	tweets	@siempreuntigre It's the fact that I need to get through half a course by 9 am tomorrow morning that has me down. I'll be at reunions!
fear	tweets	bored.. almost mothers day
love	tweets	@jtimberlake good luck! I have no doubt you will be hilarious. really hoping to see you dressed as some kind of foam food item  and go...
fear	tweets	@superfro432 Is it bad that I'm sitting here watching a #Pens replay and getting excited? I think it's the coffee, but... Who knows.
love	tweets	@LisaTheDiva all late but I seen your bubble tweet video ) awww
fear	tweets	@CarCrashHearts what do i have? lots of stuff.
love	tweets	Watching TV with the best people in the whole world !!!!! My Mum and My Sis Agus (: Love you all ! Twitter you later ha
love	tweets	just came back from karaoke &amp; eating dinner with emily. it was sooooo much fun
fear	tweets	just spent an hour doing a dino blog on myspace. i loveeeee dinos! &lt;333 Oh and the movie was really funny.
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all..im gonna help mine right now.she deserves it..you guys should too..
fear	tweets	is hittin' the ole dusty trail w/ Miss Morgan.
fear	tweets	I'm sadly dissapointed in the show ''Jonas''. Good shows on disney= hannah montana &amp; wizards of waverly place.
sadness	tweets	@melissa_paige92 AMEN! Clearly, if they did know you, they wouldn't be able to say that! You're WONDERFUL!  I get it too, though... sucks
fear	tweets	no @AlexisMarie23, I can't make it to the tour. I'm from Philippines
love	tweets	@David_Henrie haha i WISH i coudl meet you.. you should stop by seattle some time  home of the STARBUKS ;) I LOVE YOU DAVID!!
fear	tweets	Yay we're gonna leave earlier!  Can't wait to get back to Hawthorne!
sadness	tweets	@theclairemarie I can't, I'm studying so I don't fail  Come over, I'll make u some tortellini or chicken or a chicken salad.
love	tweets	@ADKmama I'll have to add your shop to my favorites! I love your needle wraps. Right now my needles are all in a mess in a basket
love	tweets	Watching snl because the love of my life is hosting
sadness	tweets	hey everyone, whats up? i got another hour and a half of work so tell me something you think i wouldnt know....this should be a good one
love	tweets	@Izzy_Artest  LOVING YOU. Haha =] join the club than! lol please  HAC 36 or 40cm is calling you. Jon told me about Ron, you can do it! LOL
sadness	tweets	outta the shower, too bad justin couldn't spend the night.  haha
fear	tweets	Dad just gave me his old BlackBerry. Not that old... But it doesn't even have a scroll ball. I want that Bold.
love	tweets	Watching SNL  gahhhhh Will Forte is soooooo funty!!!
fear	tweets	Be my Yoko Ono and follow me wherever I may go !
love	tweets	watching SNL   yay for @jtimberlake hosting!  I love him
love	tweets	Mother's day has already began! Congratulations Mom! Love u and u know it
love	tweets	@mixhelle I *heart* Elvis
love	tweets	@erikarbautista ! HE HAS A FAVOURITE! You're his favourite ;) OMGAAH.   sorry for creepering? ..not really lol
love	tweets	@paintedwhispers i miss morimoto! he's too strong a challenger i guess. oh, watch ace of cakes at midnite! they're doing a 'Lost' cake.
love	tweets	@Styla73 Tis a book...called Love, Sex and Tragedy. Highly interesting. Influence of classical on modern world
fear	tweets	@jyamasaki Ok.. so what do you think of a snapshot befoooore the vid recording on Seesmic so the ladies dont look like freaks? just sayin
love	tweets	I Love the lady from the Progressive commercials she's so funny
fear	tweets	@mrskutcher http://twitpic.com/4w9zb - must... stick.. my... thumb.. in .. chin... dimple!! lol  my hubby has one lol  but his is un ...
fear	tweets	yay i hit 50 subscribers on youtube. go me  lol.
love	tweets	@wesdunn haha no kidding... I listen to them all day long bud
love	tweets	Happy mothers day in 25 minutes everyone
fear	tweets	sitting in bed thinking
love	tweets	They have some BOMBBBB food &amp; dessert here at Prom. I'm sooo satisfied hahahah  Everyone looks pwetttty!
fear	tweets	@WalkingHorse New constructions poping up all over there now
love	tweets	on our way home after seeing Rodney Atkins in concert...I Love him! Thanks Bob
fear	tweets	Ready to chill on the couch and watch a movie
love	tweets	@xsparkage http://twitpic.com/3qfqo - awww cuuute! i have a black cat too but she's only 2 months old
love	tweets	@LittleGigiGirl ?Happy Birthday to u? Happy Birthday to u? Happy Birthday to u? Happy Birthday to u? Happy Birthday to u? And many more!
love	tweets	@nicksantino i love youuuuu nick santino! thirteen dayssss
love	tweets	@joelmchale Please give a shout out to my boyfriend Ron Griffin at 10pm show in Denver. He's in the nosebleeds, so really SHOUT out
love	tweets	Just Saw Confessions Of A Shopoholic...Totally fell in love with Hugh Dancy's accent!! :3 Need $20.00 for tomorrow, new top i want!!
fear	tweets	Jus hit the casa, changing my swag cloth. Would it be the Pradas or the Dunks tonight??
love	tweets	@torie007 have a great night, it was so nice meeting you last night! You are a sweetheart!  xoxoxo bye for now.
love	tweets	Getting ready for mothers Day!...I love my mom!!
love	tweets	@rootify if you've ever seen the way @atduskgreg uses his browser he probably has like 5 copies of it running.   http://bit.ly/1doEEj
love	tweets	@o0CHiiNKz (blinks fast) its better now ... Lol thanks :-*
sadness	tweets	@rafealAnthem http://www.CultureShockMag.com  shoutz 2 @DeeJaySchemes the mix on the site is gonna b nervvoouuss
fear	tweets	@loveashlay How about I make some more and bring u sum?
fear	tweets	@janicejenelle - thanks... I may have narrowed the location down to the car... hoping it's there
fear	tweets	@shadowcelery It's great
love	tweets	@stephenhartley Lucky...and a wife who loves me.
love	tweets	So twitter is a journey now.  well, okay.
fear	tweets	Surfing the web...
love	tweets	watching my baby on snl !  baby you look greaaaaat ;)
love	tweets	@zownder Hahah, thanks for the Tradewinds Odyssey bump.
fear	tweets	@dudeman718 Have you seen Wolverine?  Might want to change that pic.  There's a new sheriff in town.
fear	tweets	@jsie We got out there and the cafe was booked solid. LOL Doesn't matter - Mum got some plants anyway.
fear	tweets	I need followers!!!
fear	tweets	Texas Chainsaw Massacre: The Next Generation. Tis nothing, but pure insanity. Can I have the title of Queen of watching bad horror films?
sadness	tweets	@meli_beli haha yeah u did, oh well theres always next yr  chin up princess hehe
love	tweets	Passing out  early  after the  river sounds amazing. To my cozy bed  with my cozy dogs
fear	tweets	Learning how to jerk and stanky leg at sunset cliffs. headlights spotlight  with colorado and fam
love	tweets	@ashleytisdale http://twitpic.com/4t4jv - No joke my puppy Maddie looks EXACTLY like  Maui!!!  she's so cute!!
fear	tweets	We are in the State of Cheese - YUM! Green, moo-cow pastures everywhere, and super friendly Lutheran's too
love	tweets	@Jennajmsn  Hi Jenna. Hope all is well   Just thinking of you and wishing you the best! Lots of love from over here in New York!!!
love	tweets	greek season two, i love this show.
love	tweets	Edward Cullen. &lt;3  Hahaha.
love	tweets	LOVES that lubbock is wet..its about time..no more strip runs
love	tweets	i love love love silverstein.  work tomorrow. boo!
love	tweets	I love that my boyfriends loves my mac n cheese. he even took some to work with him
love	tweets	@Cortnee4Christ Made so many new friends on Twitter around USA. Another bike across USA trip would be amazing to see people!
love	tweets	i just wanna say happy mother's day to all the mommy's out there
fear	tweets	@afton_volturi ** Slaps self on forehead **  Pardon me!
fear	tweets	also @haveitsweet your caramels are like crack....  just thought you should know.
fear	tweets	Ima go to sleep long day ahead....And its all Benicks fault ,i so dislike him. &gt;=( Well Good Nite World!
love	tweets	Hoping all my friends who are mothers have a wonderful Mothers's Day. I'm spending mine with my 2 AWESOME SONS!   so happy about that!
fear	tweets	Yao is out for the rest of the season! NOOO!..staying home on a Saturday night...SHOCK....got my phone fixed
sadness	tweets	@ObviousLB *bows*  I try...sometimes it is hard
love	tweets	Buenas noches!! Hope I dream of either heaven, music, dolphins, or the sea. Sweet dreams to all
fear	tweets	@madfatter I just re-skinned. Still figuring why tweetsuite isn't updating
love	tweets	@stevecarell Hey Steve.   I think you are such an awesome actor. I love every movie you are in, and I love The Office.
fear	tweets	With sean s. watching house of a thousand corpes
love	tweets	@trishapocalypse  and I luh you tooooo
love	tweets	@jovialjen The fever's gone ... Thanks Jen!
love	tweets	let's make this last forever.
love	tweets	@oreoking awe thanks
fear	tweets	K now that, that fiasco is all wrapped and good too go  back to studying for midterms =(
love	tweets	@deleise @nataliewitcher I miss all you OK girls.    Happy Mother's Day to all y'all.
love	tweets	I mean i'm tired, and sooooo freakin in love with my @airrbear.
love	tweets	happy sunday peeps
love	tweets	@wordcharmer FUZE was giving away capes at Komen's Race for the Cure today! And I'd always love a hug from you hun!
love	tweets	loviiing declan
love	tweets	@dbvictoria love the necklace!  What a fun idea
love	tweets	Wishing all a Wonderful and Happy Mother's Day
love	tweets	@cecewhi92 That is one of my Favorite EVER!!!! He is THE BEST!! No doubt! I am so glad you like him too! XOXO
love	tweets	Home now!!! LOL but leaving again on monday for flo rida!!!
love	tweets	wow tiz almost midnite o_O bedtime for me!! ha gnite gorgeous ppl  *HADtheBESTdayEVER*
fear	tweets	krys: running, mud baths and nice French food in napa w/ jimming
sadness	tweets	@pageoneresults more seo voodoo  Google has your cache. NOARCHIVE only hides it from users.
love	tweets	Lovin' @miacarruthers, @TheRealJordin, &amp; @Adrienne_Bailon SOOOO much right now!
sadness	tweets	@bsweichsel That was like eight years ago. Not so sure it would happen now
fear	tweets	@myjacksonbrowne  hey y'all, we are waiting for final edits on our cover of &quot;sombody's baby.&quot;  can't wait for some input
fear	tweets	@studio8 --sorry for running over uncle Terry, but he just wasn't living up to his potential. expecting more from his next return.
sadness	tweets	@kimgoss i been saying that the past 2 weeks that i miss playing spades and drinkin chillin.. the good old days.. let me know baby
love	tweets	@kirstiealley: I like your crazy and witty humor!
love	tweets	@Blueeyes31 I will be uploading soon!    http://myloc.me/FEb
love	tweets	@claudiajordan Nice! Elise rolled out  Thas wassup! Have fun, ladies!
sadness	tweets	my teeeeeeeeeeeeeth, hurt a lot. The mall was funnn today, i made 10dolla, not 15.  better than nothing, right?! HEHE.
love	tweets	@Jean_Pierce Well the Enterprise E, the NX-01, or the NCC 1701(no bloody A,B,C,D, or E)
love	tweets	Watching The Nightmare Before Christmas &lt;3 Ask me if I care that neither Halloween nor Christmas is any time soon
love	tweets	curlymamaw @Paul_Colman  thought you'd like it ! 9
fear	tweets	@Carolina2676 lol... that's cool u can enjoy the show together! Tell him I said hi!
fear	tweets	@SKORPIOLOVE  I know... just when I was starting to think this break-up was gonna have me up all night tossin and turnin.. no ma'am!
love	tweets	I Luv Da movie Say Anything...  ? http://blip.fm/~5yroy
fear	tweets	@emilmor mmm, wanna go see Little Big Town next Sunday @ 4 @ Chesapeake Jubilee?
fear	tweets	Laying in the dark thinking of you.
love	tweets	says gots my mom a digital picture frame bout to scan pics of her wedding n all that mushy stuff  http://plurk.com/p/su3eq
sadness	tweets	Joining facebeek.  What a loser, I have no friends   Amy where are you?
fear	tweets	@NeishaNay im gone miss ya'll Lol.don laugh@me im serious.its bittersweet. lookin forward 2goin home but cant wait till nx semester!
love	tweets	@SophiaF3F3 I LOVE IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I ALSO LIKE THE NEW PROFILE PIC!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
fear	tweets	Trying this twitter thing out. Facebook is finally a routine for me, now i need to figure out how to do the twitter thing
fear	tweets	Chilling wit da bestie kendra...lmao!! she fell out da shower...gotta luv her tho..!!  *~P?T~*
fear	tweets	@cl2425 Hey girl!  Yeah, my allergies kick in at the most random times. Hmph.
fear	tweets	@critter42 I know   Guess I was hoping they'd revitalize the plot lines as well instead of reverting to old cliches!
sadness	tweets	@tammytrent **left off the &quot;again&quot; in the title...whoops!
love	tweets	@DarryleP I just have one, he is 14 months. I don't think he realizes that it is Mother's Day tomorrow. LOL!
fear	tweets	bundy. in 3 days.!!!! warm weather here i come!
love	tweets	@MzDeDaze you're welcome
fear	tweets	@bitchmobile I had one of those in south Florida. Mowing around it could hurt
love	tweets	Saw this lil girl that has big eyes and hair like Dora the explorer. How cute
fear	tweets	@IAMSNARKY hmmm how bout my boi an me jammin sum john stephens for ya?
love	tweets	2 ALL THE MOTHER OUT THERE.MAY THE GOD BLESS YOU MOTHERS/MOTHER-FIGURE OUT THERE.KEEP FIGHTN DA GOOD FIGHT &amp; NEVA GIVEUP ON THE YR CHILD.
fear	tweets	Happy Mother's day! Sent msg to mom and got her phone call. I wish one day we can live in the same city so I can take care of her.
fear	tweets	you can learn a lot from another person.. dont try to out better oneself when its all about love and happiness  goodnight
love	tweets	(@danielleejonas) UGH, i love tila. haters need to shut up
love	tweets	the grates &amp; children collide tonight
love	tweets	Miley Cyrus = great actress
love	tweets	@ewkrause Thanks Elaine. I'm clipping reviews for her scrapbook.
fear	tweets	@stefangilbert thank you
love	tweets	@odangitsnikki There's a way around that 72 Minute Limit ;) AIM me and I'll tell you
love	tweets	@androidtomato Hello Gorgeous GIRL! Nice new pic!  HOw are you today
fear	tweets	@SohFahrKreyZee oooh im sorry to late i smashed it
fear	tweets	@thomasfiss Lucky you...my day has gone by with large amount of boredom...and a little stress. The detalis can get a bit gruesome
fear	tweets	good talk with @broskey  muchos needed
love	tweets	Neville88@JBeauty am gud enuh hun...was jus sayin hi n hopin that ur avin a gud nite so far..HAPPY LADIES DAY 2MORO THEN...is dat better
fear	tweets	Sushi two nights in a row isn't THAT wrong is it?
sadness	tweets	@n_dubbs curse you, igloo dwellers!!
love	tweets	I still luv my HAWKS! I aint no fair weather fan! I'm ride or die 4 mine!!
fear	tweets	@SuperwomanAK that is awesome!  spent the day studyin, chillin a lil b4 goin to bed, its slowly gettin colder in Paraguay, winter is comin
fear	tweets	@momtoboysx3 I'm here if u need to vent!
love	tweets	@TerrenceJ106 Hey babe follow me,love u on da show
love	tweets	@jtimberlake rocks my world!!!! soooo funny!!!!  &lt;3
love	tweets	has the best friends in the entire world  Thank you for making the banquet and today so special!
love	tweets	@thesedreams I see you didn't shave your head. But I *LOVE* the cut.  I'm glad you didn't shave it. Your hair's too pretty!
fear	tweets	Just got my 3rd tattoo  owwwwwww lol
love	tweets	just had a great talk with grace about how awesome God is and how he works...that somehow started with how remote controls work
fear	tweets	@tncc24 - yay for getting errands done! oh, an assortment of out-of-my-control things. topped off w/ a crap race, haha
love	tweets	@theresa162 Absolutely! Lookin' forward to it
love	tweets	@iveeanne happy mothers day to you as well!
fear	tweets	@atexasattitude I'm sorry darling... I'm all over the place tonight.. I didn't mean to neglect you..
fear	tweets	@kelleydmcguire I don't know. What does it take to butter you up? Actual butter?  xoxo
fear	tweets	@positron76 You have to come to Chile... with AC/DC would be fine
sadness	tweets	GREEN DAY IS PERFORMING ON SNL NEXT WEEK!  sorry, that made me happy and i'm still all ditzy from the Justin Timberlake skits
love	tweets	Bottle of reisling this time... My favorite!
fear	tweets	@acinerba Oh man, that sux... price u pay for being on the org chart (and responsible, and stuff...)
fear	tweets	@moviegirl09 *laughs* reading?!  not happening!  i'm glad alice was in the shower, she should've seen that we were going to be worried
love	tweets	Two words: hot pockets. Most delcious food ever created
fear	tweets	@scalzi Happy Birthday  I didn't get you anything, but you have my best wishes.
fear	tweets	@blathering lucky e went!  jealous!
love	tweets	@mollyroloff tell zach &amp; jer I said happy birthday!  they seem like cool brothers, youre lucky haha
fear	tweets	Well I'mma tweet out! goodbye tweeters!
love	tweets	@lwcavallucci No... we didn't *like* it, we LOVED it!  The tone, the story, the chemistry between the actors/characters, all was perfect.
love	tweets	ohman what an AMAZING day!!! thank you mahal!
love	tweets	@Skydiver42 thank you for the followfriday. very sweet of you
love	tweets	It is officially Mother's Day! Happy Mother's Day to all!
love	tweets	had an amazingly unproductive day, but i loved it  time to go catch up on sleep!
fear	tweets	At the wedding reception. Having more fun than I thought
love	tweets	Sending love &amp; respect to all the mommies out in the twitterverse! You all inspire me!!
love	tweets	My sleeping beauties  I love my grads!! http://twitpic.com/4we5w
fear	tweets	@scalzi my attention for the length of time to type this? Tell ya what, ill add old mans war to my wish list on amazon.
love	tweets	@Eatthecakenyc i know this is MAD late (sorry about that lol) but thanks for the FF love.
love	tweets	It's Midnight - I'm outta here.  HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY FELLOW MOMMIES!!!  (And to non-Mommies too).  May EVERYONE have a special day!!!
love	tweets	Good Night,  Happy Mother's Day !!
fear	tweets	@sodaly you are welcome  @pamslim's book is a good reminder as to WHY we escaped the cube!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms! If you're an awesome mom, you'll help #savechuck
fear	tweets	@Bball4life lol thanks.  I do like to be on top. I'm going to enjoy this. How long can I be up there?
love	tweets	SEX AND THE CITY!  oh i miss this show soo much during the week.
fear	tweets	Then me disliking you is a rumor!  cyndi! What made it look like i didn't like you?
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wegx - @stealthrose Lol.. sorry. Too damn funny!
sadness	tweets	@_danni haha that's the stupid thing, I did and I'm still getting them &gt;:]
love	tweets	happy mother's day to all the mommies!!!!!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day  #mothersday
love	tweets	@Appilicious if you can and know how, why not
fear	tweets	@DROStreetTeam09 well keep me posted if it comes out fully thanks
sadness	tweets	i was screaming like a maniac!  But the thing was u couldn't scream on the ride which sucked the fun out of everything so...
love	tweets	@DaYziEbAbY THANK YOU MAMA!
love	tweets	happy mothers day mum
love	tweets	vacay in san luis and i'm pooped...in a good way
love	tweets	@myxletter good luck tomorrow
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
fear	tweets	@eclip5e Good lord, man.   I recommend the Dark &amp; Stormy at Casablanca.
love	tweets	@purplefrogcat wow.. purple leopard skin.  fieeerrceee..
fear	tweets	http://bit.ly/T17fl  mary ann &amp; frances are gunna kill me
love	tweets	@SicilyYoder no not yet I ate a couple ;) I love Reeces but they are hard to get in NZ, I stock up bigtime in the States
love	tweets	12:06am and my &quot;him&quot; is officially the 1st one to say Happy Mother's Day to me   I love it!!!
fear	tweets	Geeze- I'm just wondering what is wrong with some people. I either need to go for a run or go to sleep. Tomorrow should be a fun day.
fear	tweets	Chillin Waitin For My Hunny Baby To Get Out Of Work!!!!!  To Get My Drink On While Finishin Da Song I Have
fear	tweets	@AdiumX time to learn another language?
love	tweets	watching because i said so! happy mothers day!
love	tweets	@pameladetlor aw honey... you just relaxin? That's probably for the best.
love	tweets	@NasKarGirl Thank you
fear	tweets	Nothing like In 'n' Out and a LOST marathon after a long day of work.
love	tweets	@luvKai THANK YOU LOVE!
love	tweets	working on mothers day slideshow, cake, card, and balloons  she deserves the best!
love	tweets	@phinnia *hugs hugs hugs* I'm glad you're feeling better.
love	tweets	@jasonmitchener awesome! What a blessing
fear	tweets	@xoangelbabiixo @Babygirl9415 @thatmjgurl @kevinjlover @allecat @agirlcalledana @rawritsria @bubbles303 @ILY_beckett Thanks so much !
love	tweets	wishes all you moms a happy &amp; blessed Mother's Day!
fear	tweets	@Absturbation yeah ... he was 0-3 and SCOREless tonight
fear	tweets	@xVOJOx It was crazy all day today and I have a feeling it's going to be that way tomorrow, too.  Enjoy your couple of days off though
fear	tweets	@TheRaj I kind of figured. He'd probably be unable to reason out why a lot of the things in manga happen, or the way they happen.
sadness	tweets	Got caught in the rain. Sand Monsoon all the way home, even though i looked like a complete idiot
fear	tweets	is on air
fear	tweets	@duckamin If it makes you feel any better.. My Saturday night is lame as well. I heart you
sadness	tweets	@CynthiaY29 dr hook  awesome
love	tweets	The moon is sooooo pretty
love	tweets	Date movie with Nate. Most likely Wolverine.
love	tweets	Sunburned from Venice and watching Fred Claus....Such excitement!!
love	tweets	recorded some of a new song today! u wont hear it for a long time thooo... we might play it at shows tho! so comeeeeee
love	tweets	Justin is too funny on SNL... Ciara finna perform
fear	tweets	in the words of liana corber: Moreover, WIAIH was a humbling experience... i surprisingly had a decent night
sadness	tweets	if you're as lovesick as I am, give me a call, we should go bowling and complain about love
sadness	tweets	@saranw Thank you! You should know that I am both happy and sad (all at the same time) to know that. You've got &quot;The Right Stuff&quot;
fear	tweets	@TrevorAB aww you poor dear! But it was awesome you came out to race!
love	tweets	Hey Oprah just watched the show with Hugh Jackman, I love him too, he is so sexy
fear	tweets	can't wait to see those pics @yikes77
sadness	tweets	hot wings cafe with willyum  mild, spicy BBQ, curly fries.. delicious!!  http://twitpic.com/4wesr
love	tweets	@StealthBoomPow night honey..see ya tomorrow
fear	tweets	@carlito2009 haha that's always a good jam
fear	tweets	@brucefloyd ps- are you a doctor or swine flu paranoid??
fear	tweets	Home with Maddie  I'm tired.. Goin' to bed afterwards
fear	tweets	@oharris69 JUST like to clarify that I am a unable to acc. review vibrators as have not testrun any. *not an invitaiton for freebies
sadness	tweets	@webaggression I can only promise about 150 or so.
love	tweets	@rajtilak thanks for the followfriday promo.
love	tweets	is fixin to clean the house for my mom for mother's day
love	tweets	Happy mothers dayyy all mothers especially mine
love	tweets	@NeSsIe_Cullen10 That's so nice to hear  i love you, you're my best friend and my sister *hug u*
fear	tweets	Finished dinner @ apple bees  off to Freds in PB for drinks!
sadness	tweets	@aquadj James and I battle over everything too! It's kind of a love-hate relationship
sadness	tweets	@ninnifur   Animas calls it Combo. Sometimes it works pizza, sometimes not. What pump do you use again?
love	tweets	I love my big brother very much.
love	tweets	yay i see @PrincessSuperC awwwww damn it's about to be on
love	tweets	well going to sleep peoples!! night all twitterers!! loves ya!  *Welcome Home*
fear	tweets	@carlossoto nice to meet you. Mike, video producer CF Miami.
love	tweets	@thecompletes seen u a couple of times. Liked it
love	tweets	@thecompletes seen u a couple of times. Liked it
love	tweets	@_Bella_Cullen13 @RosalieHCullen @Esme_Cullen26 @alicecullen01 @NeSsIe_Cullen10  These are my family girls  love u guys *smiles*
fear	tweets	@kelvinlls Hey Kelvin, my day's been fantastic so far! We're getting ready for a family Mother's day function shortly
sadness	tweets	@jlskowro @jennsquared will have to wait on the recipe at Simply Recipes.  Sorries!
fear	tweets	@judez_xo oh and i know brody and erin
sadness	tweets	@_writersblock_  I'm having a bev by myself too. Sometimes you just have those kind of days and you need to relax
love	tweets	talking to my BABE  he's amazing
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wf3a - the definition of true beauty
love	tweets	@_mamalaura night! So cute that K loves frogs  http://myloc.me/FI0
love	tweets	@fabfatties Thank you! One day at a time, right?
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day :] I lovee you mami
love	tweets	oh yeah... happy Mothers day to every mom out there and to my friend's moms
love	tweets	@siriuslyheather I love chocolate. Must be PMS
love	tweets	Signing off to spend time with my hubby   Goodnight / day tweeple!   Have a very Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	@MeghanAlanna yes i love manchester orchestra,and sigur ross. all the other bands ive never heard of but ill give them a listen. thanks
love	tweets	@jtimberlake Lovin' your performance on snl tonight... so damn funny!!!
love	tweets	does it get much better than king of queens and some honeycomb knock-off cereal?
love	tweets	@nursewriter Glad to hear that b'day dinner was great! Wishing you a happy Mother's Day tomorrow.
fear	tweets	@james_a_michael It doesn't look like you're tired in the pic.  Don't work too hard.
fear	tweets	Ur performance of love sex magic was awesome!
love	tweets	It is officially Mother's Day! Happy Mother's Day to all!  (via @The_Tech_Update) &lt;-- Ditto!
fear	tweets	@skie and how are you going to make it up to me
love	tweets	Enjoying my yummylicious shrimp burrito... MmMmm
fear	tweets	To bed I go   Nighty Night
love	tweets	@alcatrazsmith Thanks al...i had a freakin ball!! great company, awesome venues....what more could a girl want?  love ya!!
fear	tweets	@KnightGrl OMG I'm sorry to hear that! I will keep my fingers crossed that you find something
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers out there! Goodnight to everyone else
fear	tweets	@FoxWhisperer  My Dad worked for SW when I graduated HS. Worked at HOU 21 years.   He retired 3 years before I joined the Company.
love	tweets	any one watching justin timberlake on SNL? He is greattttt! So hilarious
love	tweets	@Veronicahun i will do that..
fear	tweets	@MissXu Nope  Not that I have to worry about the possibility. I'm more worried about GOOG's design than her personal taste, actually.
love	tweets	Gave my mommy her Mother's Day present. Tickets to Aerosmith (her favorite band everr.) Yay for a good reaction.
love	tweets	Finished dexter season2    start on season 3 next week?
love	tweets	Shot some footage of a fundraiser to purchase a mobile health clinic this morning then a little web work and a full afternoon of climbing
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Thank you Jonathan! I am the proud mommy to a 6 yr old girl, and a 14 yr old boy!
love	tweets	@BOLDNATIVE Hi Denis, when can we grab coffee?   would love to catch up with you.  Jordan
fear	tweets	@marcelatanaka You are welcome, xuxu
fear	tweets	@HollyMVG That's awesome. Biking is an underappreciated activity these days.
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day to all you MI.. mothers out there.   Thanks for doing what you do .. whatever that is
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Awww, thanks Jon!  I appreciate that
love	tweets	Wrapping packes for mom day   Happy Mom Day to all you hot mommas out there
love	tweets	@dcorsetto love love love pot psycology. My Friday night treat
love	tweets	doing Accounting homework  Just nicely got a 50p for the project &lt;3
fear	tweets	The Veronicas are gonna rock the stage tomorrow  HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY EVERYONE!
love	tweets	@Jason_the_bear  I love  the names!
love	tweets	@db aww that's cute
love	tweets	I went to prom tonight.  My hair was cooler this time around...and I did it myself for free.
love	tweets	What an incredibly great day.  hahaha!
fear	tweets	@lyssaloo I was gonna text u and ask what puff meant!!
love	tweets	@NickyTvf have a good show
sadness	tweets	@David_Henrie wat do u mean by killed it  and yes im sure lady gaga did do awsome
fear	tweets	I had a GREAT day with you guys today! We went to the Clay House for Emily's birthday &amp; had lots of fun. We will have 2 go there again.
fear	tweets	@alexosh1234 not worth it! I love the free version for the iPhone though!
sadness	tweets	Hi Everyone miss me much?  muahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh ;)
love	tweets	Had fried oreos downtown vegas, went to the park with her cousins. BEST DAY EVERRRR.  Happy mommy's day!
sadness	tweets	@mortuaries your tweets are making my night, bb girl
fear	tweets	@Lemonpi PH and I are having a macaron smackdown...except he is not aware of it...It's all being played out in my head
love	tweets	Sleepy time! Happy Mothers' Day to current and future moms around the globe!
love	tweets	Talking to my good friend Neika on myspace... I used to be friends with her, then hated her, and now am great friends with her again!!
love	tweets	@calimiles You live dat glamorous life.
sadness	tweets	I just watched my favorite movie &quot;A Walk to Remember&quot; its so romantic and sad i just love it
fear	tweets	Tonight's SNL does not dissapoint. LOL
sadness	tweets	&gt;&gt;Why did the Blonde Keep failing her drivers license test--------&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;Everytime they stopped, she jumped in the back seat.
sadness	tweets	@mamacapps  Know I'm not the only one.  Just harder on me.
love	tweets	@jtimberlake give-it-on-up-to-justinville  may i just say...your skits in snl were hilarious! lol
love	tweets	@cococutie4u  holla happy early mother's day
love	tweets	Reading the bible, praying, then bed
fear	tweets	i have a sunburn line on my back from the tag sticking out of my tank top all day..... ugh. i need aloe vera!! went to the park again
love	tweets	@smf_always3 okay well thank you you are so beautiful too
love	tweets	@MusikFareak i'm doing awesome! Rachel N had a bday party today  it was fun. Btw have you seen  Sam's prom pix? They're GORGEOUS!
sadness	tweets	DUCKED OFF! I'LL BE BACK IN GA TOMORROW.
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight thank u sweetie! Can't wait to set sail with u next week
love	tweets	@omgstephwtf  Knighty Knight! Sweet NKOTB freams  Love Ya!
fear	tweets	's plans didn't go as followed, but its ok
fear	tweets	@FlamingBluStar Sorry to hear about the laptop troubles. Hope you can get them fixed and the lappy back to norm.
love	tweets	@Lethaldread Awww my lovies! Yes I love it all.  And I'm totally finishing my buffalo sammich after a few hits off the new bongie. &lt;3
fear	tweets	@Tyrese4ReaL hi (My Man) lOl I love you too... The song was clearer just had to turn my phone down
love	tweets	Oh Justin Timberlake. I love when u host SNL!
love	tweets	happy Bday MOM
love	tweets	My 1st Mothers Day Tomorrow
fear	tweets	I like Sunday afternoons ...
fear	tweets	@carbaby and @travisgarland great seein you guys today!!! you look so happy  love it!! lets hang out soon!! love yall!
love	tweets	@jtimberlake TY sweetheart
love	tweets	Good night everybody, i love u Phillip! XO
love	tweets	Got 38 followers now!
love	tweets	@emilove aaahhhh I'm so excited!
fear	tweets	cant find my shoes. :/ hope its as bad as itll get 2nite.  im happy.
love	tweets	@mrskutcher Hi! Im Barb frm IA. New to tweetin. Enjoy reading ur tweets. U seem like a wonderful person..I KNOW ur a wonderful actress
love	tweets	@lyteforce Ur stat pack made the LB roll. It's like ur there!
love	tweets	She is all I can ever think about.  http://twitpic.com/4wg12
sadness	tweets	I work all day tomorrow, followed by a date with tits, So Jayden and I gave my mom her mother's day gifts at midnight. She cried.
fear	tweets	@ArnaudJacobs  I always thought scuba diving would give me a entirely new perspective of the world, but too chicken to do it. can u help?
fear	tweets	Loong line for 7:00 trek. Started around 6. I'm trying to block the sun with my hand
love	tweets	@AlSween awwww you got love foe me?  yup yup I got love for mr Sween all day everyday!
fear	tweets	@thnkhappythghts HIM shirt at dinner? Do you need to ask??  Does it actually have Ville on it?
fear	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Thanks so much Jon.....same to your mom    That is so sweet of you to think of all of us
love	tweets	watching Scariest Places on Earth - I love this stuff
sadness	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER DAY TO ALL THE MOTHER'S IN THE ENTIRE WORLD WE DESERVED A DAY JUST FOR US RIGHT...
love	tweets	is also wishing these two lovely mothers @solangeknowles &amp; @fatbellybella a very special Mother's Day!!!  enjoy!
fear	tweets	@mirder http://twitpic.com/4wfs8 - You are so weird. You need to lay off the smokes, because you're talking to yourself.
love	tweets	@offgrid Awwww   i've got some photos of cute bunnies
love	tweets	got to see 2 of my favorite guys back on long island  heading back to the city tomorrow or monday to be with the boyfriend! &lt;3
fear	tweets	wow its only 9:30
fear	tweets	@Renesmeeeeee *hugs back* me too
fear	tweets	@bhl1 I hope so! My sister lives there!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Ladies... With all the moments we cherish with our children, today let those moments cherish you in return.
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MOTHERS OUT THERE!!!!!!!
love	tweets	just woke up. Happy Mommy's Day to everyone's mom and grandma!
love	tweets	@SherriEShepherd   you deserve so much better... hang in there good things come to those who wait!
love	tweets	Thai food with Natalie. She loves this stuff. That makes me smile.
love	tweets	Oh and PS. Since it is already 12:30, I should probably say &quot;Happy Mother's Day&quot; to my Mom and all the mothers out there!
love	tweets	Chicken beer and good company makes a good night...
sadness	tweets	@howardlindzon You're such a kiss ass   Looking forward to central, mountain and pacific mother's day tweets.  Don't forget about PEI
fear	tweets	he said for real
fear	tweets	@julieannee sup betch
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day 2 all the fabulous moms out there. The world wouldn't run without us. Keep up the good work! Enjoy ur day
fear	tweets	The 22nd can't get here fast enough!
love	tweets	@JessicaSimpson I've been a fan of yours for years and you have been such an inspiration to me. You're truly my idol  Best wishes to you
love	tweets	@MsEDU Tyler Perry is Hilarious! I think I will.  I'm off to bed though so I tweet ya in the morning. Goodnight!
fear	tweets	party was awesome. soooo tired, bye. ps: happy momma's day
love	tweets	@LittleGigiGirl Happy Birthday!!!!!
fear	tweets	@cptheartist 'wife a chick' LMAO!!  no problem with marriage. just negative symbolism attached to the jump-right-into-the ring bling thing
love	tweets	Mmmmmmm. I love Espresso......the app, that is. I guess the real thing helps me work efficiently too
love	tweets	Happy Mommy Day
fear	tweets	Have you ever been so exhausted your entire body aches? I'm there! Lights out - Goodnight little tweets...sleep tight
fear	tweets	I feel like I need to catch up on twitter haven't done much of it this weekend!
fear	tweets	@AlimSalahuddin LOL!!! I'm going to see it maybe today
love	tweets	wishing mom happy mother's day and ofcourse, happy birthday as well!
love	tweets	Off to bed after hours on the phone gossiping with Bia, lol. Nite nite, sleep tight!
sadness	tweets	@profitfu wattup bro, hows it going, i see ya twitter is kicking butt   JV http://twurl.nl/ogzbdl
fear	tweets	@omgfasho brent is going to 789... and charles and dave we neeeeeeeeed to go
love	tweets	@jesslina Awww, yeah, I love that one.  I remember seeing him at Great America w/ Tassi.  Such a great memory
fear	tweets	@Jordanbrown Get her Clogging Shoes
love	tweets	@userealbutter door's open, your cup of tea is waiting
love	tweets	Wonderful weekend  I love my family  &amp; friends because they are awesome. Happy Mothers day to all the mommies &lt;3
love	tweets	Im liking escape the fate alot tonight.  excited for ESTK      NemoNemesis
love	tweets	happy mother's day!!!
fear	tweets	@stovertile Etsy handmade cards weren't any good?
love	tweets	can't stop playing Fallout 3!  This game is addictive like crack!!  It's bad when you dream that your repairing guns in your sleep
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all motherssss!  &lt;3333
fear	tweets	@TheDailyBlonde No i am not a mom or dad, hmm well I will forward the link to my mom.  I am embarrassed now
fear	tweets	@rustycoon Edgefest!  or maybe  since you're driving...
love	tweets	Spending time with mom tomorrow morning...barbacoa, here I come...  HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!
love	tweets	@southernbell361 Yeah, Jimmy Fallon is back to do a skit. Yay!!!!
fear	tweets	Hmm I guess where the world is headed 2day....Lets make predictions
fear	tweets	These difficult situation force us to think about marrying a lovable girl
fear	tweets	@JonathanRKnight so seriously...I need a date to a wedding. Really dont wanna go alone. Its May 23rd...any chance?
fear	tweets	I do amazing at beer pong with my brother
love	tweets	To My Moms . I Love u so much , Ur so independent &amp; strong and I hope everything I do in life keeps u happy. Love ur 1st born Mel
sadness	tweets	@JoWork oh, she gon com back again.........AND YO' AZZ BETTA MAKE A VID ABOUT YO' PROM BOY
love	tweets	@pakyton i love them
fear	tweets	@schappie That's just weird... :\  Oh, and what was it you were drawing for me?
fear	tweets	@Yungrichhustla ohh kayy fasho if u go tonight have fun for me
fear	tweets	@FlyAArmy Yep- same here. I have to be in the mood 4 it.
love	tweets	I love Mindy, She is my favorite employee
fear	tweets	@Nora_78 I'm sowwy u have to work w/an idiot. I will call u if u want. Just to break up ur day.
sadness	tweets	@Aroundtheus  cheers!! ;)
love	tweets	happy mother's day to all moms out there...
love	tweets	@jusreenomas i didnt think the vid was hoeish i actually love it.it was so nasty  lol
love	tweets	@Quizman15 thanks joeman!
love	tweets	@mrskutcher Ashotn looks great, and you look fantastic as always! You two still have the newlywed glow, and that's forever.  TRUE LOVE
love	tweets	@beneubanks I like your HR shirts. They're inspiring me to think of witty/rude HR-like sayings I'd never actually wear.
love	tweets	@hxcfairy No wonder we're married.   Night love. &lt;3
fear	tweets	@lindentreephoto Unless you mean the 2 hours a week i use for sleeping. Yeah, suppose i could use those
love	tweets	goin to bed, but must say i love that #justin timberlake and #mark martin are the #3 and #4 trending topics on twitter tonite!  rock.
love	tweets	at homee..boring but its okiee gonna see the boyfriend and his momma tomorrow for momma dayy
love	tweets	@crystalmethod LOVE the album guys and can't wait for the official release  Just curious, what top 3 softsynths/DAW were used on it?
love	tweets	@PrincessSuperC you were greeeeeeaaaaatttttttt babe!! It was amazing!
fear	tweets	i think i might have got a little bit of a tan today
fear	tweets	@hma4983 I'm a laid back person for the most part, Vinny is the opposite.  Guess we compliment each other  it will all work out! How r u?
fear	tweets	@kricket_rc234 haha  yup. but still have a terrible headache and super swollen and puffy eyes! i dont think im going out today.ugh!
fear	tweets	To all the moms out there in this world have a HAPPY MOTHERS DAY
love	tweets	@Alyssa_Milano hahaha i love how u threw in the pets thing.  sooo same to youuu  love ya much
love	tweets	happy mother's day to all the mama's out there, be greatful and appreciate your mama
love	tweets	Pink google and flowers for mothers!  http://www.google.com.ph/logos/mothersday09.gif
love	tweets	gorgeous wedding. hope i can experience that love one day. cheers to the beautiful couple! ummmm did the hawks win??????  no really..?
love	tweets	I love my Mom. Yo Amo a mi Mama. ? ? ? Thank you mommy... Ti amo con tutto il mio cuore.  Happy Mother's Day
love	tweets	Smores plus jacuzzi equals amazing
fear	tweets	@CharlieShrem  alright...I'm going to get off comp now, go back to ur party  be safe  &amp; have fun!
fear	tweets	juss boredd, !
love	tweets	Okay, seriously. you're all going to have to forgive me while I gush like a little fangirl for a few tweets
fear	tweets	enjoyed a good time out tonight.  Stupid movie, but good times losing at the pool table!
fear	tweets	@renu19 lol y??? .. trashed the kitchen ?
fear	tweets	@JayLink_ I'll be glad to help in any way I can
love	tweets	@missSHANNAbaby aww such a cutie
fear	tweets	@chi_weets don't hurt me :'[ I meant it in a good way  :]
love	tweets	@NoraFrost Thanks for the #followfriday mention. I really couldn't make up a better name for myself.
love	tweets	@giannicash i saw a piece of that movie...loved it
fear	tweets	Exhausted. Thank goodness my race is almost here! All this training is ruining my social life
love	tweets	Home at last HAPPY MOTHERS TO ALL THE MOTHERS Special thanks to my father he bought me tulips so did my princess  adult swim time (anime)
love	tweets	@simonelrp: Potter, are also in that category! Hehe. &lt;3 I love you too!!! So much
love	tweets	Happy Mom`s day to your moms !
sadness	tweets	@FlyAArmy @aduvall818 @FlyingPhotog @FoxWhisperer - brief interruption- brb. goodnight if i don't catch u again later. gotta ck something
love	tweets	Rescued two adorable pit mix pups today.  LC and Brody.  Looking to adopt?  E-mail me for more info and pics!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day to all the grown n happy &amp; the lil prego smuts lol Just Playing everyone is loved.. happy Mothers Day &amp; God Bless
fear	tweets	i love twitter
love	tweets	Love ice cream... Love cake... Cookies and cream ice cream cake tops them both
love	tweets	juss dropped the wife off I love her so
sadness	tweets	@_peanut_ Thank you. Now we'll just have to see how long it takes me to finish the damn thing.
fear	tweets	@dorzki good morning  good luck! Belive in you
sadness	tweets	@Sparkin1 sorry I missed you at the farm today, but DM me if you would like some photos from today
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there!
love	tweets	@teiisha aw thas good im glad your happy  i jus been chillin
fear	tweets	@invalid_reality damn, you're gonna feel that tomorrow, or tonight. Coffee = laxative.  How's the writing coming?
love	tweets	Happy mother`s day to your moms !
love	tweets	@RashadHouston @DreamWorthy I love your tweets... Your sweet
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Thank you Jon!  That's very sweet.
love	tweets	says: &quot;Happy Mothers Day!&quot;
fear	tweets	My sister graduated today  it was amazing and super emotional. Wow ...
fear	tweets	@ShannonKuhns Nah, they don't. All my Twiter followers are fabulous.
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wh0l - im in love wit this fool from college hill
love	tweets	@littlewhip Soooooooooo win the PowerBall jackpot then impose your formidable will upon the weather
love	tweets	@AndrewAesthetic  just wanted to say that I &lt;3 ur music(both the scene aesthetic n Danger Radio) Hopefully i will get to see u guys 1 day
love	tweets	Incase I forget, Happy Mother's Day to all you moms out there, and to my mommy. The very best one in the world
love	tweets	@david_henrie i would still rather be in your shoes instead in bed bc i work from 10-9 tommorow. i love cold weather.
love	tweets	Btw; happy mothers day! This week its all about my momma; mothersday dinnner-birthday dinner-surprise bday party
fear	tweets	About to leave the fights. I'm tired and my voice hurts.
sadness	tweets	@danielradcliffe snitchsneeker photos were cool -but, dang, what's up with all the comments about your chest hair - that's just creepy
fear	tweets	Halla Miss Haloom  .. how are you dear? am doing fine so far but .. eeem worrying about rationale project.. Allah eyaseer inshallah
fear	tweets	@djStunz HAHAHAHAHAHHAAAA god Randy, I miss you!  hope you're having a great time buddy! catch a wave for me
love	tweets	@langfordperry by the way, just saw u on ellen yesterday. here it's late comparing to usa. u were awesome!!!
love	tweets	happy mother's day to the best mommy in the world
fear	tweets	@da_gurl_cece what up?
sadness	tweets	@agentwill I didn't want to tell you but I think it's your body odour
fear	tweets	I have a tummy ache. Buy me this - http://tinyurl.com/pavh76 and I'll feel better.
love	tweets	Loving my boys
love	tweets	Going to the alley tonite..Happy Birthday prima
love	tweets	@sapphire_05 I know booskie. HE is everywhere I am. &amp; U too. Thank u for the reassurance! I love u.
fear	tweets	@shaundiviney best movie ever
love	tweets	wo coffiees to go pleaz!!
love	tweets	@krissychau ditto.  love the friggin song!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day, Mama! You're always in my heart!
love	tweets	@iamjonathancook you are adorable
sadness	tweets	tired and didn't really have an exciting Saturday.  oh well, hope it's better tomorrow.
love	tweets	&quot;Never give up on something you can't go a day without thinking about.&quot; I like that quote.
fear	tweets	Just saw G.O.D perform I love you I thank you by MC Mong.
sadness	tweets	@Syreeta306 girl u sit ya double decker neck ass DOWN and talk about ppl who are on ur LEVEL and not above
love	tweets	TIRED! goodnight twitter  its mother's day  happy mother's day  lov my moomy &lt;3 yayy! God Bless.
love	tweets	@Linds56 You may be PC but I love you anyway!!!  Maybe someday you too will become Mac!
love	tweets	And ... Happy Mother's Day to all Moms   You sure are the ? heart of mankind.
love	tweets	migraine and leg pain and woe ): should go to bed but it is 2 flights of stairs away. Happy mother's day
love	tweets	Trying to get drunk at alexandre's! I love this place!!! Awesome cheap drinks! And awesome people!
love	tweets	wayyyyyy full. love you mum
love	tweets	It seems my grandmother has found a way to break a pipe in her house, going to go there now and fix it, she is such a blur woman
sadness	tweets	@abbey_marie Stick with me kidd...you'll be alright (there's a whole sketchy world out there waiting to be taken advantage of
fear	tweets	@SassySpider follow me too
love	tweets	@judez_xo i love you too  how are you? X
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER`S DAY!
love	tweets	im very much excited to go back to school
love	tweets	Happy mother's Day!!!! No gift to your mother can ever equal her gift to you - life
love	tweets	@JohnLloydTaylor aw.  I'm glad you do. Where would we be with out one?
fear	tweets	@henrytweet good luck with the pump!
love	tweets	Ahh im in love.  hes theeee best.
sadness	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Going so soon? I was hoping to hear late nite humor from you....
fear	tweets	@denverflyhigh Man it will be a sweep no worries
fear	tweets	Soooo high
fear	tweets	@UncleRUSH Hope you get better. I know you will have the best medical attention. if not let me know, I will be right over
love	tweets	@marjicurran1 Looking forward to your gig in Ireland!!!  See ya there!
love	tweets	@hannahmitrovich I'm glad  you def needed a pick me up!  drama free!
love	tweets	@ByDezin: G'night twitterverse, much twitter luv to you all  ? http://blip.fm/~5yvnd
love	tweets	@sweetdreamer hah i'ma knock on wood but my PC has never crashed yet..nor my laptop  but then i'm careful with stuff so maybe that's y
fear	tweets	Packing up and leaving inlaws house heading home sweet home... Had a nice weekend and back to work in a few hours
love	tweets	@EMarketingGuru Thanks. Appreciate it.
sadness	tweets	@AubreyODay aw. wasn't it sad?! give ginger a little pat on the head for me!  mwah!
sadness	tweets	@okibi Ah.  I just found it weird because it's my screen name  Name of war and all that jazz
love	tweets	(cont) when @justben told him that I love beans on toast. SO CUTE!
love	tweets	Home from Chelsea's  Jam sessions = &lt;3 = Chelsea + Abby = I luh you.
love	tweets	Great dinner and great friends! Follow @kristaeccleston! She is my cupcake
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day mom
love	tweets	@SerendipityJane I'll check it out!  Thanks  and good luck with your book!    Bella
love	tweets	happy mother's day mothers.
love	tweets	@iamoph i just want you to know, im still here for you. whover,whatever makes you happy, thats all i want for my sister
fear	tweets	At Bidor with @cincauhangus eating Wantan mee n drinkin Cham Ping.
fear	tweets	uploading new videos on youuuchuuub!
love	tweets	Dinner was fun, sat next to this cute old couple  made me believe in love again.
love	tweets	@shananaomi yippee, darling girls. Love you sooooo much  and so thrilled you found each other!
sadness	tweets	@robincareyyo ...you are kickable.
fear	tweets	2 hours 3 mins left.....THE PRESSURE!!!! We need to hurry  #48hours
love	tweets	@jaztwitta ily babe. Sweet dreams.
love	tweets	@shaundiviney Sweeny Todd is an awesome movie, the best
love	tweets	yess! talking 2 a hott guy!  happy ass fuk!
love	tweets	@RobPattinson_  I just want to tell you that you guys are amazing, thanks for Twilight. I can't wait until New Moon comes out. Melissa
fear	tweets	@JoeyyJ thats cool. My mom is a teacher in Burbank so we're always like right there. XP ahww i wanna go to the Bahamas!
fear	tweets	@jmstewart0220 I know!!  It was great!!
love	tweets	@limegreenman That be it, my Nathan sense was tingling.
sadness	tweets	@adriandanganan CLAY AIKEN? GET ME AN AUTOGRAPH!
fear	tweets	@nadyogaga yes2 bgt! if everything goes well i'll catch their reunion concert
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY!!!!!
fear	tweets	@katekintail Better than nodding off when you're &quot;IN&quot; one  LOL
love	tweets	aww happy mother's day
love	tweets	tomorrow is mothers day. so good food &amp; presents for mom. good to be back &amp; go to the junction with the coolest people at ollies
fear	tweets	Looks like I have a couple hours of software updates to install on the brand-new machine... feels just like Windows
fear	tweets	Happy mothers day!
fear	tweets	@lightbrightly haha, dork  was it good, then?
love	tweets	@Andrew_FP Awh shoot. Make a detour and come to PR  forget Indiana haha
fear	tweets	@Nololos yeah  just told Stanley its the only time I want to slap girls icky bitches encoraging bad behavior
love	tweets	@erinnn_43 HAHHAHAH that really made me laugh out loudd! ahahahahahahahahah your fuunny!!
fear	tweets	@jphauk huh what the fuck? Smelly? Noooo. I love alex Vixon
love	tweets	@miizronnie lol nice  I loved that concert! Aha u gonna post these pics
love	tweets	@dollg1974 thank you!
fear	tweets	Wal mart
sadness	tweets	Aww okayy we'll tell you about it tomorrow then
love	tweets	WOW Panic at the disco en Abbey Road
love	tweets	@ETHI_O_ASH I do too plus more happy mothers day Sweety
fear	tweets	Trying to look up Iowa State Fair Art entry information. Hope to get a piece in this year and maybe win something or get noticed.
love	tweets	I'm sending a Happy Mama's Day shout to the greatest Twit-mama ever to @NikkiWoods... U kick ass, all day - everyday! Lovely sons!!
fear	tweets	@biancamichellee haha kk tell me when u remember
love	tweets	@LadyKadi Happy Mother's Day, Kadi!!
love	tweets	@olsonbd80 loved it! Thanks for taking care of me
sadness	tweets	@arundo_donax ISN'T PUPPY FREAKING ADORABLE!? I didn't want to let her go. FUZZYPUPPY.
love	tweets	sitting here with Nathan, Eddie &amp; Brenden chilling out at 1 AM, haha great day, I love my life!
fear	tweets	sad that borders did not have guerrilla gardening book but otherwise a most lovely relaxing day
love	tweets	@bradiewebbstack well then happy mothers day  ahahahahahaha
fear	tweets	Happy 11th  I'm going to sleep now lolz
love	tweets	@davjr  i love you mooorrreeee
sadness	tweets	Apple FAIL. If you set up a new British Mac, the dashboard weather widget is for London, Canada, not the UK one  (Hard to tell too!)
sadness	tweets	@dredpiraterob poor thing. come watch tv at my house  lol
love	tweets	@peninasharon ty 4 the retweet!
love	tweets	yeah.... and im gonna take ur picture off my ipod baby..
fear	tweets	gooooonight twitter...... i hope im better tomorrow
fear	tweets	What does &quot;drink responsibly&quot; mean to you? Please share a tip (or two if you're drunk right now  )
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day Mama bear
sadness	tweets	@TheSpencerSmith hush...stop teasing
love	tweets	@rooeh I recommended .net, I guess since they bought something from you they featured you. Hopefully it brings in more business
fear	tweets	@DurbinDigital LOL, yeah I do it cuz it just seems that way sometimes don't it
love	tweets	I think its cute my mom still waits up for me when I go out eventhoough I've spent 2 yrs out of the house. &lt;3 my mama
love	tweets	Waiting for the Black Eyed Peas to go up!!!! We got backstage passes thanks @sammysamla thanks again hun!
love	tweets	kill bill pt 2 .....I love em both wish they wold make like three more
sadness	tweets	about to hit the sheets.
sadness	tweets	listening to the new demo! This song is going to be fantastic once its done!
love	tweets	tonight was hilariouss  i loveeee everyone that was theree
sadness	tweets	09/09 +full moon+ my lovely friends and family= my b-day wish came true;)&lt;3 In addition,gray matters is one of the cutest movies ever!!
love	tweets	@propa_gandhi awww, thanks, Brad. hahaha that actually made me laugh out loud    LBD.
fear	tweets	@PlumpPeaches I'm glad you're little Prissy is doing well. It's obvious how much you love her w/the treatment she's getting
love	tweets	will be doing all the chores just for her mama
fear	tweets	final one, over. only one more and two pages of an essay left
fear	tweets	There's a 1,000 you's... there's only 1 of me...
love	tweets	@WeTheTRAVIS goodnight lovely
love	tweets	wow, so x-men was pretty much amazing. i love wolverine.
love	tweets	Gave my dog a bath &amp; and then jumped in the mud - gotta love it!
fear	tweets	- had a great time at the 'block party' - so did mackenzie
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wi9p - playing with ethan. i love you baby
fear	tweets	@MichelleMontana lol..well..no. I've had insomnia since I was 23 :-/ &amp; since then dont sleep a lot of hours, but the ones I do are great!
fear	tweets	My dad's drunk off his ass. Today was successful.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the amazing women who put up with us crazy, demanding children. Thank you.  Very very much.
fear	tweets	Yep, this is about as &quot;boonies&quot; as it gets, if you look at the map   In transition. Gotta find a place and a job. - http://bkite.com/07kjR
love	tweets	@claudiaintouch Yeah! I want it too. I love that &quot;Falling Slowly&quot; song. It keeps playing in my head.
sadness	tweets	this is how we do itttt
love	tweets	happy mother's day!
love	tweets	@rickyhorror but I don't want to hurt you
love	tweets	@shoshanabean im following because of @conorclancy  yaaaaaay conor!
love	tweets	I love my memories. It's almost like re-reading my favourite book all over again
love	tweets	@positron76 cant fuckin wait mate!!! it is goin to fantastic. its made my week
love	tweets	be sure to tell your Mom you love her and thank her for putting up with you!
fear	tweets	@lightgood thank you  You too! I hope this turns out to be a top week for you.
love	tweets	@thewildjoker I selected 4 people today out of my list. Out of 300 or so I picked the 4 that made me laugh!
love	tweets	Just downloaded music for over an hour.  Love when that happens
love	tweets	@ahecht25 Thanks Amy!  That video is so awesome!  Did you see TMH?  He's amazing in that too!! Bouncy Bouncy Bouncy!!!
fear	tweets	im gettin off nd watch a movie nd have a couple of drinks nd shots   ill try 2 get get back on if i can
sadness	tweets	Soo Tired. My head hurts. I Love Andy sooooo much!
love	tweets	was busy talking with mom and bhabhi.. they liked the cards bro and me made for them  now waiting for sis to get back from Church..
love	tweets	Happy mothers day!
love	tweets	X-men movie was pretty good. Kinda predictable @ points but good action sequences
sadness	tweets	@imfunsizee and jarita i'm going home now and i'm with two hot guys  drool.
love	tweets	Just have to say again how much I like the new twitteriffic
love	tweets	I Love All Time Low
love	tweets	I truly praise God for my mom-the greatest mother in the world  Happy mother's day to all of the mothers reading this. Enjoy your day!
fear	tweets	hanging out with Dan and Brian in my room for my last night
love	tweets	HaPPy Mothers Day!!!
fear	tweets	@findingurstyle lol it's funny but it's not the back... it's all in the legs ;) and I've never hurt my back! Thank God!  Thanks 4 watchin!
love	tweets	Ugh what an amazing night. Time for bed! I know i'm gonna sleep well. And with no getting up early!  good night!
love	tweets	@tamamic - Definitely following @TorontoStarMaps - I've been &quot;following&quot; the creator of this feature since 2005!
fear	tweets	if tonight was anything like summer i cant wait
love	tweets	@MrPresident92 I was just about to put in &quot;@&quot; and then my username.. Wow.
fear	tweets	only got 22.90 in tips last night.. (N) but he earned bulk money anywho
fear	tweets	OK its official I&quot;M OLD! at least I feel likewise OLD &amp; TIREDD &amp; WASTED!!
love	tweets	Writing Mother's Day cards for my mom and gran...  hurray!
love	tweets	@David_Henrie you are amazingg. replyy! it's a dream come true if you would reply to me
love	tweets	@tabbycat224 yay!
love	tweets	Happy mothers day mom!!!  i love you.
love	tweets	praying the rosary with my family!
love	tweets	how r u feeling? and when r u guys coming back to canad?... come to vancouver!
love	tweets	I'm Having a Baby Girl! (In the next 17 Days!) I think I'm gonna keep this handy  http://budurl.com/f9p5 Funny Stuff!
fear	tweets	@andycane wow.... really?!? is this necessary??
sadness	tweets	OMG, time to sleep, today was an horror, i really hope best weekends *---*..Goodnight buddies
fear	tweets	@kimberley_ thats coz we love you
love	tweets	I love all my friends  @christickell @micahdwhitehead @johndavidwright @vivianleighturn and drew were fun tonight
sadness	tweets	OFFICIALLY booked for seattle with @cfine1 and @ebotkin12 it's going to be THE best birthday weekend EVER!  @bradlawrence :you made me sad
love	tweets	Still love &quot;The Sizzler&quot; though...and Chuck NIce. And Doug Benson. And Paul Scheer. And Nick Kroll.  Love me some geeks
sadness	tweets	I &lt;3 Rupert Grint......&amp; of the boy, Ive accepted tht I do fancy him  But im certain he doesnt feel the same so its not worth telling him
love	tweets	@kathyIreland Hugs 4 kathy. Though my mom's in heaven, I know she's smiling at my accomplishments &amp; all the people who keep me positive.
fear	tweets	nope, san leandro marina.    how are you?  hope you're well!
love	tweets	@glammyts happy mum's day to ur mom  say you're from the philippines too?
love	tweets	First Happy Mothers Day  Second what is it that makes us think the way we do? Why do we feel the way we feel? I dont know but i wish i did
love	tweets	@DeLaSelis no... But I met a new graphic design friend, so that was dooope!!!
fear	tweets	Happy mother's day to all mothers here!
fear	tweets	@lexjosephine I heard about your reply! im so jealous! kevin is my favorite! haha
love	tweets	I have the immense pleasure of being entertained by Pride &amp; Prejudice for the 3rd time and I must say that I find it very much agreeable
love	tweets	@laurenconrad http://twitpic.com/4wh4d - so cute ii love this
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day all!  Hugs and love, Zoe
fear	tweets	@SusanRaymond thanks for the ok ...hope we can tweet more down the road
fear	tweets	Omg Wango Tango was fucking AWSOME! I love my baby for taking me
fear	tweets	@BLaCkitaLiaNa7 ay uuuu  happy mothers day
sadness	tweets	@LaurenBakarian: i miss you
love	tweets	@heynadine - not early at all, just say you are running on eastern time  hope you had fun at your auditions! canada ftw!
love	tweets	@ShelbyStroman yes!! it is, like, super-glued inside my head.
love	tweets	Ruff, Ruff, says my sweet little mini chu-weeny dog. Her name is Ziggy and she is just too darn cute for her own good. She says hey guys.
love	tweets	Cathylo-fran! I'm glad i can vent out to you about this. Thanks for being here for me bestfriend
love	tweets	I have been married 1 year to the most wonderful man
love	tweets	@Michaelcopon: Awesome. Tell me if its good. I might watch it
sadness	tweets	@ninjapixie83 Sorry for your loss.  I know how you feel.  She or he was a lucky cat.
love	tweets	yay mothers day  i love mi madre
fear	tweets	mothers day, happy mothers day mom
love	tweets	@colorarmy: I'll keep y'all in my prayers but welcome back to TX  Hope you have a good,safe flight
sadness	tweets	@LisaBernart Great to meet you! Thanks for the use of your umbrella...I hope you ate and got some sleep!
sadness	tweets	@jtimberlake DAMN YOU KILLED IT ON SNL...THAT WAS GOOD STUFF I WAS CRYING W/LAUGHTER @jimmyfallon broke you i love it
fear	tweets	@FokusChicagoKid Ah....okay
fear	tweets	Wine and Saginaki with 7 friends = good times
love	tweets	@LarieBeck Good to hear! I got a bit of a tan today too, which is unheard of for me- I am SO pasty white all the time.  Mostly I freckle.
love	tweets	We picked up Boston Legal season 5, enjoying it now.  No matter how offensive Denny can be, I love Denny Crane!  He is a riot.
love	tweets	Loved Wanda Sykes' performance at the White House Correspondent's Association Dinner
fear	tweets	watched 100th episode of numb3rs. loved how they did a throwback to the first episode, using the sprinkler theory
love	tweets	@RiChArD_Morgan_  which 1? There r2 that I love and want to share  i just wish I'd made them-
fear	tweets	hip hop is alive &amp; well in nashville tn!
love	tweets	FREE UNLIMITED RINGTONES!!! - http://tinyurl.com/freeringring - USA ONLY - Awesome 4 iphone
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all the mommies!
fear	tweets	Campfire and smores
love	tweets	@ztnewetnorb i agree with @masterballerina spongebob is better
love	tweets	watching &quot;Say Anything&quot; - great '80s movies and the starting point of my love for John Cusack!
fear	tweets	I HAVE NEW WORK COMING OUT
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Aw..see that, right there is why we all ? you Jon!  Give your mamma a hug tomorrow! Much love ~ Jamie
love	tweets	I have a license and a car..at least for now.
fear	tweets	I'm baking cookies. What are YOU doing?
love	tweets	@Miss_Melbourne Sounds good! Say hi if you run into me there! I'm always always having coffee there
love	tweets	@ishmael5 http://bit.ly/Msize  There you go dear  I love her Janelle
love	tweets	@LilEmoBoi  its like that with the goo goo dolls for me. Then I heard &quot;iris&quot; and absolutely loved it
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wjai - Joe's the photographer of the family. Rehearsing is always fun. For the first couple of days it is at least.
love	tweets	@penny268 Lol. Thanks, Penny. I'm trying to believe you.
love	tweets	@torridcrafter One of my good friends in the states has it covered now, but thank you again!
fear	tweets	niggas got they eyes on me and i aint talkin bout da BM when i say i got 745 on me
sadness	tweets	Don't know what to do right now...pretty bored, but I refuse to study. Any suggestions?
love	tweets	I also have a certain CD from camp that a certain somebody gave me...  Yeah, there's this guy in the video that's really frickin hot!
love	tweets	Happy mothers day!
fear	tweets	@DanielAlxander I like that...gonna have to re-tell
love	tweets	happy mother's day
sadness	tweets	Still feel like craaaap and like everyone on earth needs to know this lol... Have fun birdies
fear	tweets	@howardlindzon Obama support still at 821 - he's up 13% - needs to hedge his FAS position  heard he bought some stocktwits sweatbands
love	tweets	@ all mothers, Happy Mother's Day, at all non-mothers, Happy Sunday, the 10th of May.
fear	tweets	@DrMeredithGrey i think she'll pull through.
sadness	tweets	Thank you all for your incredible support and encouragement-it means so much!! You constantly bless me &amp; I am thankful for you!!
fear	tweets	@tenticketthrill ahahaha! That's funny.
fear	tweets	@TinainMelbourne Will do
love	tweets	Wow.. TAGers ROCK!!!  Awesome performance
love	tweets	Dinner party was great!  Happy, full clients that is what I like to end my day with
love	tweets	@vmahmud I am at my office now, dude. yeah, get one!!! come on, let's go live! geez, all u need is time to practice. U'll get used to it
love	tweets	Oh, tonight is a good night
love	tweets	i basically want the world to kno that i have the BEST best friend    love her &lt;3
fear	tweets	@niw Thought you should mention that you don't need to enable Growl in Tweetie to make your plugin work, and to avoid duped notifications
fear	tweets	can't keep eyes open....*shuts eyes*
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! I love my mommy
sadness	tweets	happy mothers day  going to the zoo... i have to wake up at 9:30 oh god noo!!!
love	tweets	I love how small adelaide is. Just ran into callum, of all people, at the airport. Amazing to see him though
love	tweets	@N_Y_Yankees changed my default pic since you've been showing so much love!
love	tweets	@deaninwaukesha Oh yes...quite.  And with that, I really do have to retire.  G'night doll!!  Nice chattin' with ya!
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
sadness	tweets	@farah_n_pete you do a terrible job of hiding it.
sadness	tweets	@TiptheMilkman awww  no problem , sorry for tha loss
love	tweets	@Morgan_Company Hey Kathy, happy Mother's Day!
fear	tweets	Is coming to the end of his first shift  6.30 local
love	tweets	happy mother's day to all the mothers in the world.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day to all the wonderful mommies out there  I LOVE YOU MOM!!
love	tweets	watching some scary movies with my friend
sadness	tweets	@hollywoodtv just a question.. are you guys liek famous or anything ? haha and MILEY FOLLOWED YOU LUCKKYY ! im so jealous
love	tweets	Aww, I love my daddy! He works 7 days a week almost all day and still tries to go to SF with all of us
fear	tweets	@MissSididdy ur welcome...anytime
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to everyone's mothers, mothers-to-be, grandmothers, great grandmothers...All the WOMEN! I salute you all
love	tweets	@limegreenman And I thank you.
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTH3R'S DAY 2 3V3RY IN TH3 WORLD!!! ILY
love	tweets	@swoopthekid I'm good, thanks.  Hope you're enjoying the weekend!
love	tweets	#HappyMothersDay to all the moms out there
love	tweets	@stompthewalrus yay! now ill shall take your picture, and get a tattoo on my arm
love	tweets	@FrostyJan Enjoy the ride
love	tweets	like wat do i do wat do i do.........HA i got it i'll go 2 mushygushy...... so peace out twitter dudes i got a gushy gram 2 make
love	tweets	A very special HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY to all Mommies!
love	tweets	oficially mother's day! Hug &amp; kissa Ur mom today more than U do everyday  cooking 4 her is a good idea, i'm making enchiladas suizas =]
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wjjs - i aint a playah, i just crush alot.
love	tweets	Woo CAVS.  Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	@evgibson I have to admit at being a Colin Firth groupie at this point.
love	tweets	Bout to go to bed... Happy Mother's Day ladies .... especially all th 1s who takin care of thier kids alone..n I Love U Momma
fear	tweets	@misskg86 thanks kelly! that means a lot.  have you figured out your apt thing yet?
love	tweets	@genehiga Your studio! @annhamilton and Bogie became one of your best friends after you guys started it.
love	tweets	@BarbaraHauck Hey Barb, I love the line in your bio..Without health, nothing matters...So dead on!
love	tweets	I love my daddy. Dad's are so under appreciated by their daughters these days ... Not mine.
love	tweets	@cubandoll you're welcome
love	tweets	@Rayyychell  Jane Austen's books!,    Pride and Prejudice &amp; Emma are great!!, Also  Northanger Abbey!
love	tweets	Smiley absolves all
fear	tweets	@gotsthepeppa woo! I was at whole earth tonight, maybe tomorrow some, let me know if you come back. Yay for wikipedia
love	tweets	@SamBennington Hey Sam, happy mothers day
love	tweets	@zendoc pretty soon gonna have to unfollow myself from @tweet_words to cut the quickly growing &quot;habit&quot; ... but I do love the challenge!
love	tweets	@khloekardashian Cause its true!!! It would!!! Hahaha... I Love YOU
love	tweets	@charlestrippy LOLL im a college girl...bahahah i love these blogs they're so funny!
fear	tweets	@LMRB besides when u come and visit ill have more room for u!
fear	tweets	@FLallday Hey Kevin! Yeah, this one's gonna be a toughie for sure - not much sleep. Oh well, only 8 hours to go
love	tweets	@ATsLady @Josette_78 @DallasJud Thanks for the love yallmy tweeps   &lt;&lt;&lt; fa sho!
fear	tweets	Have been writing since 6pm &amp; I only have 300 words. Can't help but edit as I write. Stop it, self! Oh, I've also been researching too.
love	tweets	Enjoying my weekend with my sis  xx
love	tweets	Why did i drive and how did i make it? Ahh margaritas are the BEST!!
fear	tweets	@cubbygraham I wanna come!!! How come u didn't invite me!
love	tweets	&quot;He was interesting..and brilliant..and mysterious..and perfect..and beautiful..and possibly able to lift full-sized vans with one hand&quot;
love	tweets	TIGERS! WOO! YOU'RE MY BABY! omfg. cleveland was a blast. sleeping.
sadness	tweets	Im.in.the.room Im.watching.the.HANNAHmovie.withMOM.She.said.this.film.very.great.
love	tweets	classic SNL digital short tonight! Be my mother lover  ha ha... too good!
love	tweets	@datingdad HA.. I look at Twitter games as harmless fun. Despite being author of Twitter book, I try to talk about other stuff
love	tweets	@laracasey: LOVE you walking us through this event. So fun. Blue water. Surplus of donuts... what a great night!
sadness	tweets	My legs are so fucking sore. And my feet hurt to walk. Whataday
love	tweets	Bed. Church in the morning. Happy mothers day
fear	tweets	havin fun my friend?
fear	tweets	its mothers day
love	tweets	Guess it was too much to hope for me to have a nice relaxing Mothers Day!... Happy Mothers Day mommies
love	tweets	we broke 2,000 followers!! yay  We love you all &lt;3
love	tweets	I think you are super cute...
love	tweets	@herrowitsjess Yeah, but George says something with his words. Otherwise its just..... jiberish junk... love, joy,happy ahh see how nice
fear	tweets	@ChrisPeezy angels even though I'm probably not the third... ANGELS AND DEMONS
love	tweets	I'd like to thank my normally only randomly working internet for actually staying up from the moment I sew the tweet until now.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day Moms  Take a load of for at least a day!
sadness	tweets	@Epic_War_MT I'm no longer blue
fear	tweets	happy mother's day!  http://bit.ly/6fGxd
fear	tweets	@iamjonathancook pleaase dont start dating her, that would suck, then disney kids would listen to ftsk. thanks
love	tweets	loves summer! and don't forget people, tomorrow is mother's day!
love	tweets	With rooobbbbbiiieeeee
fear	tweets	@sareybarey I just watched that episode again last night.
fear	tweets	@GenesisFireMoon Ah sorry to hear that, just saw pic of chi. and looks cool  I got beagle and ori-pei
love	tweets	@angrya ps love the new profile pic!
love	tweets	@political_queen like it
sadness	tweets	@AmyPredsfan Oops..too late.  Already popped in Bridges, since I missed most of it on tv.   (I &lt;3 Blair &amp; Jo too!)
love	tweets	@lanaclevermomme @thepalmgifts i love that show. I would totally go on Time Bandit #deadliestcatch TPG:&quot;Love ocean, crab legs suspense&quot;
fear	tweets	@donttrythis Something like that happened to me once: We closed the side door too hard and the engine locked up
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
fear	tweets	love it when my sister brags! but she's too tired too spell bowling right! haha its ok I &lt;3 her!!
sadness	tweets	@CandyMaize its ok..i was kinda feeling ignored anyway  And its sunday arvo 330pm. Going out for Lunch &amp; WINE!
fear	tweets	@cnystedt Good morning! I certainly did
love	tweets	thank God we finally found her!
love	tweets	Now have windows 7 up and running....very very happy  it's got sum wicked new features http://bit.ly/jyWnz
fear	tweets	@tamij Where'd that ? come from? No pup for now. But certainly in the near future. Maybe a beagle. It depends. I do muss my fatboy.
sadness	tweets	thanks so much for the discount code. looking forward to trying your pads out
fear	tweets	@reesnicole We should have a twitter reunion it would be awesome to meet you all lol, iwonder howd iget that to pull off
love	tweets	Happy mothers day mumm  xoxo
fear	tweets	@charleshope When are you and @gracepiper coming over so we can violently agree?
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! Justin Timberlake's version a mother's day gift.. http://bit.ly/6fGxd  -- too funny!!!
love	tweets	wishes Happy Mother's Day!
sadness	tweets	I just single handedly killed 4 flies and a crane fly with my hairbrush!! I'm gonna go disinfect it now...but bugs beware!!
fear	tweets	NKU - I can get that app after all!
fear	tweets	had a good time at prom. They played Jonas Brothers for me. pretty much made my night...
love	tweets	@gio511 We should have a twitter reunion it would be awesome to meet you all lol, iwonder howd iget that to pull off
fear	tweets	Currently brushing up on the art and science of selecting good domain names (after having 550 domains the year before with poor results)
love	tweets	@judielise @PopandIce Wish you both a very Happy and Fabulous Mother's Day!
love	tweets	i feel really blessed to have super awesome best friends
love	tweets	just got to kansas city and excited for a fun weekend with my family, my sis, parker and josh
love	tweets	At envy! Loving it  best club ever.
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight thanks JK!!!  Love ya to death
love	tweets	Night Night Everyone.    HAPPY MOTHERS DAY to all mothers
sadness	tweets	@citycynic lol, as a target employee they forbid me from that place, no i usually go in and buy like everything along with commenting
love	tweets	Stunning weather today/this afternoon/now - couldn't ask for better!
love	tweets	@DavidArchie although, there is drama, move forward, smile, and count your blessings everyday. Your actions speak volumes, sooo inspiring
sadness	tweets	@dailypep I'm sure I will cry at the most unopportunte (spelling?) moment!!
love	tweets	@BeckyLopez Happy Mother's Day!
fear	tweets	@smithld I picked up some stuff I missed the 2nd time  And to think you missed all the in jokes too!
fear	tweets	@Nemone1 going to imax @130am
love	tweets	night twitter lovelies. happy yo momma day. i luff you mummy
love	tweets	@dorothearose you are the sweetest.  love you cuz!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
love	tweets	@oeyz Howdy do!  I'm just living my life and loving it.  How's you?
sadness	tweets	@prepchik07 p.s.: UV rays are just as strong with clouds as with regular sun, sometimes stronger. just FYI.
fear	tweets	boooo on life decisions....bottle of wine be my lucky eight ball tonight
fear	tweets	spirit week! Tuesday have to be in make up by eight so I can die later. School wednesday and thursday then, finally sleep in on Friday!!
fear	tweets	@prayingmother I like tweet deck and I'll try the other one u recomended Thanks
fear	tweets	@iamjonathancook awe
love	tweets	happy mother's day mummy  i love you. xo
fear	tweets	Mother's Day has been good for me
love	tweets	today something amazing happened...I fell in love with coupons!
love	tweets	Wishing all Mothers Happy Mother's Day
fear	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	I LOVE CHICAGO.   Tonight was AMAZING!!
fear	tweets	Hmm..You can't judge a book by looking at its cover
love	tweets	i love all da sexy ladiez ya beautiful unique and sexy, and smart. dont let a nigga call u a bitch cuz ladies ya worth then dat i mean it
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all mothers out there!  I am not one myself, but I have been called something along those lines
fear	tweets	OH MY GOD STAR TREK WAS AWESOME AND I CANNOT WAIT TO SEE IT AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN. OH MY GOD. CHRIS PINE IS SMOKIN'!
love	tweets	@_callmeCourt always welcome hun
love	tweets	@nomaez hey man, thanks for twitting for twitter tshirt , appreciated
love	tweets	@ashleythegreat I love you too baby  see i'm cool now!!!
love	tweets	@vickycornell HAPPY MOTHERS DAY VICKY!!!! AND TO ALL THE OTHER MOTHERS WHO READ THIS!!!
love	tweets	@istribawel haha iya  starting to tweet again krn mitzy baru ber-tweeter jg Nit.
fear	tweets	Making my momma a happy mother day card &lt;3 I love my mommy
sadness	tweets	Filming at a carnival for my music video... It reminds me of the Cherry Festival that I used to go to back home... Ahhh memories...
love	tweets	It feels like its nine and not one. Guess what? I love making money
love	tweets	@terrytokyo i wish we could have seen you girls today. well besides from across the crowd haah. hope you had fun
fear	tweets	Ugh! I have to sleep! Tomorrow I will sttart my photobook for my Jonas' concert!  Its just in 1 week, 4 days and 16 hours (:
love	tweets	loves her mum very much! Happy Mothers Day to all the wonderful mothers out there
fear	tweets	@riceballs Belated kay Tita.  Wow! 2 prizes in a day! Congrats!
sadness	tweets	Going to fold laundry and then hit the sack. I have boring saturday evenings
love	tweets	I'm cooking meatballs for lunch  yaaayyy ...
fear	tweets	JB on the front of factor x!!!!! wooh contest timeee
love	tweets	@plasticpiranha He was my reason for even going too haha.  Shaun of the Dead was too epic haha
fear	tweets	@DanWarp http://twitpic.com/4w9w6 - lol you sure love that sushi. you've tweeted many pictures of it.
love	tweets	On page 214 of 320 of Betrayed by P.C. Cast. really starting to enjoy this series
love	tweets	HAppy Mother's Day to my Mom...that lady is the coolest  I love u ma!
love	tweets	@Bparker_Seattle I totally 4 got about Golden Girls that is a gr8 Show
love	tweets	Tabu. How ive missed you
love	tweets	@justinbrighten happy birthday justin! have a lof of fun!!! God bless
love	tweets	Heading home  i love my boys
fear	tweets	If someone in the family died you would of heard about it. Duhhhhhh. . .
love	tweets	@HEYdustin yesss sweet. see. tough love. for real, we love you
love	tweets	Going to woodland hills  gna swim and drink. Makin the best of a good day. Yee
love	tweets	@kara_sutra what is your next youtube video gonna be about? I love your videos!
fear	tweets	@DMBwine yes - I'm having my usual battle with my bed. Bed is winning, so far  How are you chick?
love	tweets	Gotta get creative with these mothers day gifts. I'm gonna win them over with my love!!
sadness	tweets	@thomasfiss hahaha now ur gonna tweet.... I awoke to 67 the other night haha Man the concerts here suck. Cali's da place 2 be
fear	tweets	@michaelsheen ekkk..thats ruff..hope you have a safe flight and good meeting
sadness	tweets	Sounds like there's a party up the street.  I guess they forgot to invite me
love	tweets	@jiayu95 Adam Lambert rocks!  He must win American Idol!
sadness	tweets	Just got home from work and tired
fear	tweets	everything is good except that neck shot and Steve's back of the head shots!
love	tweets	To all mothers out there in Twitterland: Happy Mother's Day. I hope your day is a great one.  ~Tara Mae
love	tweets	@wordybirdee You're welcome --(that bashful kick's pretty cute too)
love	tweets	what a lazy sunday... I love lazy days...
love	tweets	@brypie thanks x x it went really well. I'm tired now though  hope you spoiled your mum-in-law
love	tweets	@mismile you're so cute.
fear	tweets	@MissHeatherG we are tooo fly boo
sadness	tweets	@ChaseSanders  if she sees that she will cry! lol
fear	tweets	Every day is Mother's Day.... Don't wait for 1 of 365 days to come around to show your mom how much you appreciate and love her.
love	tweets	At KhSA new years festival. Love the traditional dances and outfits
fear	tweets	HAHA THIS CONVERSATION WAS FUN BUT NOW IM TIRED! GNITE!!!!!!!
love	tweets	@AREYNOSO1 @MALICAMUSIC @MOMTOAM HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!! LOVE YOU GUYS...
fear	tweets	forgot my macbook's recharger, that means nothing but Pratchett for me today
love	tweets	Oh, and before that last tweet i spent about half an hour on brushing my teeth with my new electric toothbrush! I feel great
love	tweets	@Jessica___xx lol. shall be fun
fear	tweets	http://bit.ly/wZK3o  &lt;--- Paranoid. I actually like it better performed live rather than the studio version.
love	tweets	Love love love. One a day does a woman's body good  http://twitpic.com/4wkpe
sadness	tweets	@DawnRichard Awww, that's nice.  You both make a really beautiful couple, you balance each other.
sadness	tweets	mmm - home-made pizza (that I helped to make), a home-made cheesecake (to eat soon) &amp; family... a nice day for mother &amp; nanna
love	tweets	Enjoying my weekend with my kids!
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wkpl - Widescreen laptop + rotation + comics = Awesome.
love	tweets	@PrincessArchie Remember to put your phone on silent! lol  Night loveees
love	tweets	I'm loving Please Don't Leave Me by Pink!
sadness	tweets	Missed Justin on SNL! AGHHH! Just when I started to love him again, yes it's one of those weeks.
sadness	tweets	new phone + zero contacts = poo. send me a message with your name so i can save your numbers thanks
fear	tweets	I have the worst stuffy nose EVER. Lauren's spending the night, and I took too much Sudafed!
love	tweets	In other news: i like this band, &quot;Lydia&quot;, and its easy-going melancholy-yet-cheery songs. It's good listening
love	tweets	Psalm 82:6 I have said, You are gods; and all of you are children of the most High. Happy Mothers Day Momma
love	tweets	happy mother's day
fear	tweets	@KrissyKris725 well wassup than dont be scurred now! lol you'd probably like it if it came to biting!
love	tweets	@aaalisson YES. He's fascinating. I love his bedroom.. oh my God. The books.
fear	tweets	@JonathanRKnight Happy mother's day to ur mom!!! i hope she has a wonderful day!!!!!
love	tweets	Bwahah I love the jackass movies!  I have chocolateeee!
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
fear	tweets	Cooking dinner!! Its already late!! am making Cabbage Molagootal for dinner!!
love	tweets	@casparterhorst thanks for the recommendation!  I was not following, am now
love	tweets	@MsDamn Happy mothers day to you beautiful!
fear	tweets	@kc0219 I will! promise to bring me back something from the moon?
love	tweets	@officialTila You're welcome Tila!! I love you!! Wish I could have heard it
fear	tweets	i'm going to bed. have fun with the drunk ones.  see ya in the am!
fear	tweets	&quot;I'll see you again yeah?&quot; &quot;Its up to you&quot; &quot;I guarantee you will, i dont want to wait to long not seeing you&quot; fuckin fruit basket! Hahaha
love	tweets	@Brutus626 there is the fact that you are the coolest guy you know.
love	tweets	@nickyy123 im sure she'll love em  how was work? x
love	tweets	I have fantastic friends
fear	tweets	@iadn Ok, just rub it in why don't ya.
fear	tweets	It's 2am and I still haven't gone to sleep yet! Up early to hit the beach and then shopping! Yays!!!
sadness	tweets	definitely OD tired..but backstagepazz.com is no joke..i think i want to be a groupie just so i can tell my tale.
love	tweets	Had a great day: beach, BBQ with old friends (it's crazy that I'm old enough to have 'old' friends!), &amp; learned how to play texas holdem
love	tweets	Watchin' The Soup! This show is the BEST!
fear	tweets	My whole immediate will be in the same city until some point tomorrow afternoon. This is monumental
fear	tweets	@__loss good god woman! Get some sleep!!! I'll call/text when I'm in the city.
love	tweets	Hanging with Megan Brooks. Best girl in the world
sadness	tweets	i'm addicted to home
fear	tweets	done with the packing and everything else ... leaving in 3 hours ...
love	tweets	@JFabb Ahaha!! I have all of your albums.  Each stuff of your music is so beautiful! That's why I am so in love with them.
love	tweets	@laurenconrad http://twitpic.com/4wh4d - this is a very pretty picture
fear	tweets	On my way to see diplo with my girl kathryn at smartbar!
sadness	tweets	@slicksean I'd love that. And, don't think of it as easy. Think of it as enthusiastic.
fear	tweets	Dahh- I do believe it's time for bed. G'night
fear	tweets	@jlojlo you are a very naughty woman - we sooo have to meet!
love	tweets	I love my life  Ni night twitter!&lt;3
love	tweets	@ShawnRobinson thanks for the follow, your family photo is beautiful  happy mother's day to your wife!
fear	tweets	Who out there loves the soup. I do, I do.
love	tweets	@l3ree im glad you got on twitter. I love you baby
love	tweets	@dinno thanks dinno  appreciate it
love	tweets	@fiascowines oh oh oh are you offering to send ducks!  I love love love confit duck
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wkzi - before prom. this is when all the chaos began
love	tweets	@AmbitiousMurphy - i sure hope so  it was worth it for me too  loveu.
love	tweets	the boys didn't finish their tacos so now I'm eating them happily
fear	tweets	@MissNeyra hmm...ok, well I hope you feel better soon babe  Ima go to bed, I have a long day tomorrow
love	tweets	@acrocks congrats! Photo of dre?
fear	tweets	@xxmcr_ladyxx just scared for you! youre so young! @chemicalbullets im okay  what you doing?
love	tweets	@KManCOBHC You, the other crew and COB tried your hardest to put on great shows and fans all appreciate it. Tell Alexi get well soon  MH.
love	tweets	Just saw Star Trek...one word: BombTastic!!! Go see it if you haven't already. P.S. I love Jon Cho!!! Haha
love	tweets	Happy Moms day y'all!
fear	tweets	@Bella_in_Forks ::static:: I know! I've barely seen anyone since I got into Paris yesterday.  I've just been walking around.  ::static::
love	tweets	@lakersnation a celtics-lakers rematch sounds better don't you think? lol
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wl05 - I love this picture, hate this kid. But hey, he's looking at me...lol
love	tweets	@beach_girl3 awww its your b day?!?!?! Ahhh have a party!!! lol and invite me
love	tweets	At the coast. Too many people here i know.  i love you Nicci!
love	tweets	@souljaboytellem say Hi Nikki pleaseeeeee...lol.   (Soulja Boy Tell 'Em LIVE live &gt; http://ustre.am/2UhS)
fear	tweets	I'm off to bed. Head just won't stop giving me pain. ahgg.. Let this sinus, allergy, whatever you are be over tomorrow! Sogni D'oro
fear	tweets	no clue wtf im doing
love	tweets	thought Yes Man was good  had a blast with old friends tonight and heard some great music
fear	tweets	the day after.... I`m not sick but a little tierd...a bit to much to drink, but I had fun!
love	tweets	@Jorge924 well i'm expecting you for dinner lol.  Jelly Beans for dessert?   have a good night  $teph&lt;3
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! --  http://bit.ly/LRSnG  Mother Lover - J-Tim &amp; Andy Samberg video, hilarious
fear	tweets	@skooter88 me neither at first...but u gotta go thru somethin first to get there lmao...i almost burnt my house down and that set me str8
sadness	tweets	Shower is taken. It is in the room right by the bed. Yeasterday we had the shower on the balcony, with sea wiew, that was a bit nicer
love	tweets	On my way home...today was UBER funn..seriously a great day..i love my family
fear	tweets	We're home now
love	tweets	Beautiful Day..takn it down twitters  tell ALL mothers Happy Mothers Day
love	tweets	@TheBeast32 oh okay cool, i love the fast and the furious can't wait to see the new one
fear	tweets	@shadowsinstone And I'm listening.
love	tweets	happy mothers' day to all your moms!
love	tweets	butterfly fly away- miley ray  , oh &amp; happy mothers day &lt;3 love u mami.
fear	tweets	I have a crush on this guy at my job, name is tyler and his eyes are blue and very mesmerizing and he is too cool. Nite
love	tweets	I find this tune to be very sexy. Smooth... have a lovely day  ? http://blip.fm/~5yzb6
fear	tweets	i'm staying up to watch it
love	tweets	Goodnight peoples!
fear	tweets	tried  to sleep but i cant bout 2 call tisha
love	tweets	is a sleepyhead. looking forward to tomorrow. i love his family.
sadness	tweets	strongly agrees with Jason about Wolverine, but not about Hugh Jackman.  Sorry. No kids for this Mouse.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day Mom! I love You!
fear	tweets	@wonderdra IT SHALL BE MINE!! IT SHALL... BE MINE!!! *raises eyebrows*
love	tweets	@peteypinata as a nj native, i thank u
love	tweets	@peebilicious and @emnguyens: Aww, thank you!  I love you girls&lt;333333
love	tweets	says Happy Mother's Day!  http://plurk.com/p/suqsg
love	tweets	@DawnRichard beautiful inside and out kids like you and que.. ILY guyz  wish i could have met you while you are here in houston...
love	tweets	happy mother's day to all the moms out there. i hope i never join that crowd
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day.
love	tweets	@Meylanie what about the dilfs? Oh wait, wrong month....HAPPY MOTHERS DAY
love	tweets	Had a fantastic day at the beach. Thanks friends  xoxo.
love	tweets	Happy mother's day to all the moms
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mommys out there
love	tweets	@FeFa1 hola chica! hopefully ur on your third dream by now. ur cake looks wonderful, ur mami will &lt;3 it
love	tweets	Good morning &amp; a very happy mothers day to all those lovely moms across the pond
sadness	tweets	@vautrin tis' cool..I still stand by my former proclamation! I'm just stubborn that way! #rebellioustwitwhoknowsacoolcatcook lol
fear	tweets	ONE MO TIME BECUZ @AmazingSha HASNT SEEN IT YET!!! AND SHES SOO DAMN COOL, ILL POST IT JUST 4 HER  http://bbltwt.com/0mqko
love	tweets	I love my Maitu. N she loves me. Happy mothers day mama!
love	tweets	@rochelline http://twitpic.com/4wl5b - she is just adorable
fear	tweets	Christian doesn't have a Twitter...But he has a cell phone  Hahah..I'm bored.
sadness	tweets	Just got home i love stake and shake milkshakes
love	tweets	Good days with good friends make me not regret living
love	tweets	happy mother's day to all thee mamas out there!
sadness	tweets	@kevinpollak  We forgive you and we have missed you!
love	tweets	@jenstier Ooooh, that's very pretty Jen! I'm sure she'll love it!
love	tweets	Mom, where ever you are; Happy Mothers day
sadness	tweets	@kixsal The Star Trek in IMAX wasn't in 3D, but it was huge on the screen.  Still worth watching.
love	tweets	11:11 pm Perrrfect universal alignment.    &lt;33
fear	tweets	That was crap.
sadness	tweets	Im so done defending him. Im going to bed and im gonna give my mom a happy mothers day.  at least ill try.
love	tweets	@phaoloo Thank you so much phaoloo !!!!
love	tweets	life's good
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL YOU MOMS!!!!!
fear	tweets	Had a lovely day with mama cuppy
fear	tweets	@drhorrible http://twitpic.com/4w8ja - aw you guys all look adorable, but Felicia you look a little demonic...
love	tweets	@tiffany_celeste  finally some sleep in silence
love	tweets	@fiercemichi, love your background, I just might have to copy it
sadness	tweets	@brabakr   ...Thank you Mr. President!....
love	tweets	i'm just sooo in love....i think
love	tweets	happy mum's day! i kinduhh have a major crush on alex johnson from the cab
fear	tweets	@megdia tweet often and it'll draw followers to you
fear	tweets	Do you wanna talk
fear	tweets	Planning tomorrow's special breakfast Ima cook for mom  she's gona get so happy
love	tweets	@PhillyD I love your show! I've subscribed and following your tweets. Can't wait to see more
fear	tweets	@lynne08 okie,thanks ill check it out
love	tweets	@YoScottie Btw, I smile everytime I see ur smiling face on ur profile here. &quot;Grins&quot;  Damn ur cute.
love	tweets	Wishing everyone a Happy Mother's Day.  xoxo
sadness	tweets	bye daddy!! see you on tuesday
fear	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!  Love your Mom...
love	tweets	@ddlovato My mum loved the Camp Rock mothers day card I gave her. I knew she would. Happy Mothers Day from New Zealand! Haha ILY lots  xx
fear	tweets	@lolove and i got hello kitty tattoos!  she's a ballerina and i'm a ladybug
sadness	tweets	@Britneyspears : For the Record is still the saddest thing to watch. &quot;I'm gonna go through life like the karate kid&quot;...and so am I.
fear	tweets	Semi-intoxicated Tweet
love	tweets	@Smoo409 oh my gosh, loved it!
fear	tweets	home! day scale from one to ten is an 8  damn i feel old compare to him, haha so cute.
love	tweets	@jovenatheart Great!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day  Breakfast With The Fam &lt;33
love	tweets	Whatever you're thankful for in life, make sure you are most thankful to your mother. Happy Mother's Day to all you mothers.
love	tweets	i love my babe so much, he really means a lot to me
love	tweets	just woke up from a 16-hour sleep. happy mother's day!
love	tweets	ugh my head, when will all the headaches stop. anyways, i love my life right now, i couldn't ask for anything more. i love being happy
fear	tweets	AHHHH my keyboards getting worse :/ my BDAY's in 1 more day
love	tweets	home! i dont know what im doing tmrw besides the whole mommys day thing. but then what? feeling awesome  NIGHT YOU GUYS
love	tweets	@MistahFAB Peace Bro, thanks for not just the music, but proudly representing as a father all over - Happy Mother's Day
sadness	tweets	I fucking love Alexander William Gaskarth
love	tweets	@moonfrye HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY!! You're my fave celeb to follow
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	@NikkiBenz The Hulk, great movie  You might recognize Toronto's Younge Street in some of the fight scenes.
love	tweets	is starting to love twitter!!! Facebook-detox diet is working great
love	tweets	Wishing all the mommies a happy mother's day
fear	tweets	Surely you have guessed, the Arbiter is no other than Judith.
sadness	tweets	@suzyqbee He says he feels mama tucking him in at night  He's lonely but getting by. Tomorrow will be tough!
fear	tweets	and it is raining in Denver. of COURSE it is
love	tweets	@JoesGaGirl You'd have him sweating and shaking, baby.
love	tweets	my 6th wedding anniversary today... so lucky to have such a gorgeous wife
love	tweets	@TsunamiWavin Lol  i know
love	tweets	says Happy Mother's Day!  http://plurk.com/p/sutar
love	tweets	@cara_rosaen i LOVE your new bracelets!! im a very proud sista...you rock, girly
love	tweets	To all the gorgeous moms out there, Happy Mom's Daaay!
love	tweets	@mOi_UAE wth! .. 9_9 hello you
sadness	tweets	@Lozingsleep Damn, that charming skater look is kind of....HOT! A hot mess  Catherine pls don't hate me for hitting on your friends. tnx
love	tweets	@urbanlifepoetry haha. thanks for listening to me rant on and on about nothing!  have a good NIGHT?
fear	tweets	@Karen230683 @amysav83 remember and drink plenty of fluids! and no buwieser dose not count!
fear	tweets	has anyone else seen this? the @twitter DM notification email says &quot;reply on we web.&quot; i am all for cool accents, but it's weird online
fear	tweets	@_AlexaJordan sigh. come to Sac please. it is the Miami of the central valley.
love	tweets	@kootoyoo Thank you Kirst - your posts on running inspired me
fear	tweets	that's enough! I'll do nothing for 2 hours.
love	tweets	@ztnewetnorb haha me either but like ive always loved hilary  shes the girl id turn gay for  haha
love	tweets	@KielysWorld you are such a great person.
love	tweets	happy  made 23 necklaces in 24 hours lol Happy Mother's Day to all the Mother's out there
love	tweets	@mrskutcher Happy Mother's Day! I hope you have an awesome day...and a good rest of the night
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!!
fear	tweets	It's great to be home! Temp is chill, cat is great and I feel awesome
love	tweets	@09Casper oooooo. i like that too! anywhere near mommy is good for me.
sadness	tweets	@elf_princess69 hehehe! Barry Killer! U need a pic
fear	tweets	Wondering if I shouldn't be gettin to bed about now...
fear	tweets	ahhh twitter, I havent seen you all day
fear	tweets	@JennyBax I'm with ya on that one girl!
fear	tweets	@theamazon111 Plenty of good trivia on wikihow. Just trying to help  hope u got to sleep by now.
love	tweets	At the Spoke Club - fell in love with Tom Arnold all over again (not Rosie's ex definitely different)... Lucky moi
fear	tweets	@chore4n yeah... WE STILL NEEDA HANG OUT! Lol. I's glad you had a super time at the show
love	tweets	Thanks @TheCampain for shoutin out my mom today  She also says thanks!
fear	tweets	OK - so I can't sleep...  Twitter it is
fear	tweets	@shawtysoDOPE who can do it like we? Noboddddyyyy
love	tweets	happy mamas day to all the baby mamas... and the baby mamas mamas
sadness	tweets	watching the original sabrina the teenage witch movie. so different from the series but so rad
fear	tweets	Theres nothing like your own pillow.
love	tweets	Just finished Church. Happy Mother's Day!
fear	tweets	Church is in 8 hours! I better hurry up so I can get some sleep!
fear	tweets	@laurafraley01 if only I had half the drive you had!!!  You are my idol
love	tweets	loves the new Mother's Day snl digital short, mother lover, oohhhh cornyness
fear	tweets	Saturday Night Live in 3 minutes  Jimmy should still be on it.
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	@thiscouldbefun Happy Mother's Day! Hope you have an awesome time with the Bug
love	tweets	WiSHiNG ALL THE MOTHERS A HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY
love	tweets	@reenna96 My long lost friend!
sadness	tweets	@geneva_rockett i know! And he laughed at the stupid 'women's right's' joke. Wth! Glad we have the same humor!
love	tweets	@BumbleBeeBree He says thank you
love	tweets	I love Google's Mothers day theme  http://tr.im/jtl8
fear	tweets	@mrskutcher Years ago, my brother saw you and Bruce walking on the sidewalk in Sanibel. I used to live on Pine Is. Great place
love	tweets	: Happy Mother's Day
love	tweets	@cager83 wow I love it !!! thanks
love	tweets	@IAmCattSadler Catt i TOTALLY love your default picture! You seem like such a fun mom!
love	tweets	Okay Im going to bed..Toodles twitts i've had my fun for the day
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day  with my boy of the doom! (my dog xD)
sadness	tweets	@CHACITY has more followers than me. I wanna be as cool as her. Follow her so that will never happen.
love	tweets	@tallivansunder Too easy! Happy Mother's Day, to a great mom!
fear	tweets	Less than 99 days til warped tour.
fear	tweets	@vobes WE Quite Like Worthing its a relaxing place with nice coffee shops and fresh air.. and not too many Oiks
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wmaw - pink.green.. Love it.!
love	tweets	Is...Sayin Happy Mother's Day 2 Everyone!!!!!
love	tweets	Happy Mama's day to all mothers
love	tweets	@jtug all the photos  niceeeee
love	tweets	happy almost mother's day
love	tweets	MY best 'thing' on the planet
love	tweets	is going to bed soon. happy mothers day to all the mothers  &lt;333 ryan less than 3 weeks :]
love	tweets	@alyssacalderon  I love you too! I'm kinds reading. But you can call if you'd like
love	tweets	Watching scary movies with Ruby and Michael
fear	tweets	@blawnoxgirl Yes, we will! We should maybe do it in a DM though so we don't annoy our followers. Thought of that too late.    Good night!
fear	tweets	@chrisettefan the step show was fantabulous! (hi @lcsweets !) my sis's group won 2nd in their division and 2nd in the show overall! WHOO!
fear	tweets	@meyen: You MUST watch Grey's. It was their 100th episode. Let me know once you do. I don't want to give out any more details
love	tweets	@ShelbyCohen mothers day gift
fear	tweets	Ha we made it safely home
love	tweets	@missxlellabelle mon ami since 5 years young  I loveeee her. Foreverrr
love	tweets	@swamwine Yeah! Thanks! I'll be back in soon to see what ya got!
love	tweets	great night hangin out with my family... mom and dad loved the extra company tonight!  can't wait for FRC Pcola Tomorrow
love	tweets	Tinkling the ivory keys on a grand piano tomorrow. The small things in life that keep me excited!
love	tweets	The battle at Minas Tirith is still very impressive. Return of the Jedi is the best Lord of the Rings movie IMO.
fear	tweets	following some body on twitter
fear	tweets	It's not even cold here, but im wearin a big jacket! It's got cat ears on it
love	tweets	watching HGTV at 236am lol wtf must love me some home decor
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there.
love	tweets	@Makaio8688 Will you uh, marry me?  haha just kidding. Kind of. You're hot though. Just so you know.
fear	tweets	hung out with Misty today!!!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the mom's around  Hope you have a wonderful day!
love	tweets	Just want to wish everyond a Happy Mother's Day. Hope it's a great one!
sadness	tweets	going to sleep now...5/10/09 &gt; Happy Mother's Day...&amp;...Happy Birthday to ME!!!
love	tweets	Happy mothers day to all the mommies
fear	tweets	@mmitchelldaviss Hello, I see your online, can u talk to me pleeez!  From a fellow BAMF. lol
love	tweets	@RaineRomano yay for bj and lorraine amd their baby! hahaha
love	tweets	@jamie_oliver Please pass on our &quot;happy mothers day&quot; to Julz. Have fun with your girls
fear	tweets	@robyn3890 it was way worse than that ...and where were you why didnt you say hello?
love	tweets	loving that spring definitely seems to be here now
love	tweets	is liking this feeling
fear	tweets	@Twilighter_OfOz cool, catch you laterz!!!
love	tweets	@fiascowines good luck with the deer next weekend!! Hope it isn't too cold or snowy
fear	tweets	@IdolScott That is so great Scott!  So glad to hear it went well   People just love you!!  I'd sure have been there if I were closer.
fear	tweets	Restoring new iTouch 2.  Excited to use it. Yeeeeeeeee. Goodbye iTouch 1.
fear	tweets	@DOOMBUG Totally single.
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	goodnight to all.
love	tweets	@jamie_oliver And the other half of the twitterers are enjoying what the wonderful Sunday afternoon has to offer
fear	tweets	@ionlydrumnaked i've done that before, don't worry. you're not too crazy.
love	tweets	i wanna be in michi with my moma!! Love you Mom
love	tweets	happy mothers day.
love	tweets	@sharonhayes GIRLFRIEND!
love	tweets	Only has under 200 words left to write on her assignment
love	tweets	happy mother's day! I love you mama
fear	tweets	@JayLink_ yeah
sadness	tweets	@shibuya246 yeah, but no closer to the secret of stumble.
love	tweets	With my baby drinking. God I love her
love	tweets	Good morning, sunshine! I`mm gonna start my day wth some movies.
love	tweets	Paper writing til my heart's content
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wmoa - yeyy..
love	tweets	Tonight was fun. Love my girl Tanna!
love	tweets	yo yo yo! i like ice cream
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY  ASAP EVERYDAY!!!
love	tweets	thank you for teaching me values and to be a better person each day  I LOVE SO MUCH, YOU'RE THE BEST MUM IN THE WORLD
love	tweets	You make me happy, whether you know it or not  &lt;3
fear	tweets	@yansie02 not yet. im still loading it.  have you?
love	tweets	@solangeknowles happy mother's day! you are beautiful.
love	tweets	is going to go have some cuddle time with her C baby and woofies...I love our nightlife
fear	tweets	@indieandyy  I hope when you're calling this the shitshow you mean that in a good way. because this will be fun.
sadness	tweets	finding out a song you had no idea was a cover is actually indeed that .... and then thinking that that is awesome makes my day.
fear	tweets	just got my BMTH concert tickets  ? youknowimsofreshtilldeath?
fear	tweets	@jannarden  I may see the sun come up. All my bits are sore today - but life is still grand  Tomorrow is a new day! Sleep well, Friend!
fear	tweets	@andrew_apuya hey hey andrew!!! haha! ;P well happy mother's day to your mum.
love	tweets	Making yet another attempt to attend church on a Sunday morning!  Looking forward to it y'all.
fear	tweets	@janmcq - that is awesome.
fear	tweets	Please remember you need a helmet for the bike asap, talk to you later ok hope your head not to bad
love	tweets	@directorSandy I fucking love the fucking internet.
fear	tweets	@Azlen Don't go there  it is all good
love	tweets	@TRACTAHPULL   I love you
love	tweets	happy mothers day to my mom &amp; all the other mommies / moms to be! have a qood one ladies
fear	tweets	@switchfoot My youth group was there! I would have liked 2 go, but I couldn't afford it, &amp; I had a drama performance/party...  Luv ya tho!
love	tweets	@solangeknowles awwww yur a awesome mother keep up the good work
fear	tweets	@skullgirl22 you will never be the same...
love	tweets	i think taylor laughtner and selena gomez are the cutest couple! i love them both! just read it on M! my fave mag
love	tweets	rblpn  @kaaeyl , You know, I could listen to every version of War Pigs ever recorded  ? http://blip.fm/~5z10d
fear	tweets	the voter paint just peeled off my skin. or maybe my skin just peeled off with the voter paint
love	tweets	hapee mother's day t all the mothers out there!
love	tweets	happy mothers day mam   little bit of a hangover now:$ need to do everything for mam now, but I love her, so for one day I'll do it.
love	tweets	Some of us are both. We may have strong loyalties in one direction, but I have love for TNG as well
love	tweets	@adnamay Yeah  The entire time I was all *swoon* b/c of his eyes..... *swoons thinking about it*
love	tweets	@just_another_1 I love that we just get a little peek of your dimple
love	tweets	Just finished yet another amazing book by Susan Elizabeth Philips!!!  God I love her books so much!!! Which one to read next??? hmmm...
sadness	tweets	So I was just angrily told I was extemely abusive...mentally, emotionally, &amp; physically. It made my day.  Nightss.
fear	tweets	@cArtPhotography Hey, it was a GORGEOUS, day (and night) here, too.  Played in the sun then a full moon lit my way home.    Life is good.
love	tweets	@bioncaaa oo never played it  thats so good that u like 2 play games most females dont like too
love	tweets	time to go to bed... and hopefully wake up to a better day  niiiiiiiights yall
love	tweets	@debaoki Thanks for getting me bottled water.
love	tweets	Love the 3 mile 3AM runs. They make me smile
love	tweets	read twilight and new moon keen to read eclipse and breaking dawn hmm twilight was better then new moon but there still awesome
fear	tweets	has just figured out his username and password for his twitter account
sadness	tweets	@aplusk Awww, here...WAZ UUUUP!!!   Seriously, glad y'all had fun.  Too bad my invite got lost in the mail lol. peace. xo
love	tweets	feelin nice after this bottle of bacardi
love	tweets	I'm off 2 dream awhile. Thanks 4 everything tweeple. Many blessings &amp; much joy. peace, love &amp; happiness 2 u all. Hope ur dreams come tru
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
love	tweets	4 hours till Mothers Day Party  Yeah!
love	tweets	@green_i_girl  is okay! Hearts getting lovin! Sorry for sneezes.
fear	tweets	Can't sleep. Fucking morning will come to soon. Have to rest! It will be a new day. A perfect day to start new changes
fear	tweets	@pabloest beer from japan.  google it
fear	tweets	lip syncing &quot;im so excited&quot; wit blairr then were gonna youtube it
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	loves it when mom and dad come to visit! nothin better
love	tweets	@JayLink_ luv it  so true
love	tweets	had a wonderful evening with those I love!
fear	tweets	@mrskutcher Yes, people skills and social manners are quite nice.  If you a few billion, guess you need MORE love to gently guide you.
love	tweets	i love it when justin timberlake hosts snl; hilarious
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all you mothers out there!!  i love my mom! GOODNIGHT everyonee!! ?
love	tweets	Loves him but most importantly loves my mom! Happy Mothers Day!
fear	tweets	@KilllWill nope, just whatever you speakin a couple tweets ago lol, but fuck it, i can get u a raider jersey
love	tweets	@DawnRichard have an amazing time with your mommas tomorrow! Show them how much they mean to you  Whatever you do they will love it
sadness	tweets	@DonniesGirl69  Yes,... I blame you all
fear	tweets	@JoelMadden Awe man, that sucks. Everyone makes mistakes. I have a feeling that people can forgive you
love	tweets	@andyclemmensen would that just eat away at your masculinity? What masculinity did you have? :p haha u'd probs beat me tho  haha xo
love	tweets	i'm also on plurk  try it
fear	tweets	@discombob Yeah, she's done it several times. My Dumerils boa did it a few times w/ no prob. Just wonder if my hognose needs bigger food.
love	tweets	I am a big fan of Danny Dyer I have to say this movie looks awesome  http://snurl.com/hpwnz
love	tweets	@Shontelle_Layne you're welcome sweety!  muah! xoxox luv ya!
sadness	tweets	Memories
fear	tweets	@Icametumbling Yeah, I've seen that before, funny   *Hey honey, Jill just sent me a dick in a box*
love	tweets	great night
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day everyone
love	tweets	@UndeniableQueen ooooo i love pretty feet
love	tweets	Happy mothers day everybody
fear	tweets	@ms_ta_ta haha It's BAD! Anyway goodnight, gorgeous  Sleep super well n shizz
sadness	tweets	So tired and I have to work till 10:30 tonight!    Happy mothers day to everyone too  http://tinyurl.com/qu62bl
love	tweets	@kmergs It is, Pinkwind is a thing from Vanessa's dad. And My sister made me that SN in the 4th grade
love	tweets	happy mothers day, too all mums out there  remember treat your mum well, she brought you into this life =]
sadness	tweets	Twitter, you just fail at life sometimes.  Oh well. http://tinyurl.com/qkxh7q
fear	tweets	better get some sleep soon. she has to get up and go to Sunday meetin' so she can pass out invites to her jewelery party.
love	tweets	@mrskutcher Happy mothers day
love	tweets	@melissamark_ hehe go dye it beb! put more blonde innn  mine is lighter than it was, left it in  a bit too long oops&gt;&lt;
love	tweets	Welcoming new #followers: @chillisoft, @Hansieboy, @keylman  @luongdat, @pleasehelpmenow &amp; @FLWbooks. Thanks for the love. Tweet on!
love	tweets	@polyzzz Goodnight and sweet dreams to you also
sadness	tweets	@jamie_oliver whats for breaky then, russtle something up for my hangover please our jamie lmao
fear	tweets	@SkinnyInTheCity Good to hear... several of my peeps are working tonight...
love	tweets	Moms everywhere stop what you are doing and get a good night sleep for tomorrow its your childrens turn to pamper you.  enjoy your day
love	tweets	@REALConformist I loveeee cashis  ms. Jenkins is my shitttt!!!
love	tweets	shoutout to all the beautiful moms out there that these niggas dont appreciate! some one cares Happy Mothers Day!
fear	tweets	@RetroRewind ty for feeding our NK addiction..ermm i mean our uhh nope yup addiction covers it
sadness	tweets	@SirReigns Good luck with the design....remember the little people   Heading to bed, goodnight!
love	tweets	going to church  god bless you all.
fear	tweets	save me--i feel like i'm going crazy.  ? http://blip.fm/~5z193
love	tweets	i'm going to try to get some sleeeeeeep. goonight twitter  have a nice mother's day.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all mothers
fear	tweets	Artwork at 3AM. Gotta get this portfolio done for MECA by wednesday. Meeting with milonzzi to review it then.
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the Mommies!
love	tweets	Still totally excited that my oldest friend @Spencesaur has twitter. I luff my Spencer! Even though he has rabies
love	tweets	Happy Mothers' day!
love	tweets	@officialTila Your so down to earth..and REAL! I love that about you  woo! Tila Army!
fear	tweets	@ratherlargedog You should hate your gender less. Not all men are bad. In fact, I quite like mens.
sadness	tweets	@oohhMandy ITSNIKKITIME haha...shiiit, that was Austin o'brien..pardon my BAD call!
fear	tweets	OMG disco is PACKED!!!
fear	tweets	@akomuzikera clearly need to crack the whip some more
love	tweets	@iNanz bet sexy; i added u on myspace!
love	tweets	@AaronLHB you got her a watch? Thts sooooo sweet
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY
love	tweets	@tldavidson Totally!!! Rock onnnn!
love	tweets	I'm emailing my best friend Deanna with my yahoo account. Emailing is FUN.  &lt;3
love	tweets	@liltwist twist cld u follow me  ill love u forever
love	tweets	@tweerrerbot  Well I was following you because I think your interesting ... and I was right
fear	tweets	@RetroRewind Thank You I came on late so YES didn't have a chance to hear it
sadness	tweets	@twisty7867 i'm using paint.net x64 and it's running crazily fast - can't afford CS4 unfortunately... yet
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
sadness	tweets	@solangeknowles I'm proud of You Solange.
fear	tweets	HMV Shinjuku
fear	tweets	@Marcyluvstravel omg! I dont blame you! hope you didnt hurt him too bad
love	tweets	@suppz yeah, but Mr. Mom's I would say, appreciate their wives much more than the avg dad   I have a new found respect for mothers now
fear	tweets	@marco_cali Good morning
fear	tweets	@LauraRepetti i tested on an old shirt first, which was good coz they failed, but the two i did properly look awesome
sadness	tweets	Enjoying the happiness of this special day. Another day that I can make the best one of my life
love	tweets	@Immunerock Good luck on Monday!  Keep on rockin'
love	tweets	back from melly's party... i had fun...  i'm sleepy now...
fear	tweets	@jeffcannata before I contemplate that any further, I'm gonna go ahead and take that as a compliment.
love	tweets	watching Bones with Naty. Have made her a fan! Mission convert Naty: Success...now onto Mission convert Meagan
fear	tweets	See FTSK tonight in Grand Rapids
love	tweets	@khasabadmemory thanks for teaching me how to play a part of that song
love	tweets	@SweetAmes - SO.... yeah. I VERY much appreciate that.
sadness	tweets	been high azza bitch all day.... was goody... i missed u twitter
fear	tweets	gotta hit the hay y'all. big day with the kiddos 2maro. i love being a mommy  much love-- lil
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	The kids were awesome today! They loved the face painting!
love	tweets	@doc18 awesome! cheers man! don't know if i'll have much money left after todays shopping spree though!
love	tweets	@cacsb911 thank you cici  right back at ya!
love	tweets	@angiemartinez happy mothers day ang
love	tweets	I forgot, Happy Mom's day.
fear	tweets	Beautiful sunny mornig here in London, time for the morning meditation and some inspired living  http://ff.im/2L36n
fear	tweets	Well then andy i dont think you should date me
fear	tweets	@jespern Oops! I got taken ...
love	tweets	@Tacquira anytime love..you looked beautiful! Next time your in nyc, hopefully we can link up! Enjoy your evening
sadness	tweets	@KManCOBHC he has been really brave but this is the best thing to do - now he can rest and get better. Get well soon, Alexi
love	tweets	@camerontdf Happy Birthday  Hope you enjoyed us singing to you Wednesday &lt;3
love	tweets	Daniel has won DSDS. His voice is great.
sadness	tweets	Music soothes the soul...
love	tweets	love the sweet g'nights every night
fear	tweets	@solangeknowles And that's what makes you an amAzing MOTHER  HAPPY MOTHERS DAY SOLO!! LUV YA!!
love	tweets	Happy mothers day to all of you amazing moms!! Hope you have a wonderful day with your loved ones. You deserve it!!  You do a great job!
sadness	tweets	@sanda86 ummm.. sure! i miss ya'll alot too.  i think you know who i meant.
love	tweets	@peter_rabbit_ I have been begining to think you are showing signs of becoming a sped haha  Love ya!
fear	tweets	...and for the record...this is the best its ever felt not to cross anything off my &quot;to do&quot; list at the end of the day
love	tweets	I am at my grandparents place
sadness	tweets	@wolfchild59  heheheheh... lol... I always figured he'd send them your way if he got any dupes... I felt bad not sending him stuff...
fear	tweets	@mosdefaqueen My pleasure. I can't be with my mom on Mother's Day. But I can spread love.
fear	tweets	@TracyAnn_W Happy Stopping by to wish you a Happy Mother's Day. Tracy   Looking forward to meeting you at the concert.  Hugs....Joy
love	tweets	Oh Mother - Christina Aguilera. Happy Mothers' Day to all the mamas!  ilovemymommy! &lt;3
love	tweets	@mexecution your right, it is a great plant  i love it
love	tweets	I am so grateful I am your daughter!  Happy Mother's Day, Okasan.  Thank you for everything... always!
love	tweets	Had a BLAST this weekend with my sweet girls in Vancouver, watching my awesome Celtic lads... AND I got to see Alissa! Now I'm home
sadness	tweets	@FoOie yea just fun dive..a bit scary sometimes but fun.  u like diving?
love	tweets	@crazyness  o sweet i saw him last year with kenny &amp; sugarland will be with kenny this year.. i have seen them b4... love them.. gknight
love	tweets	@JasonBradbury Have a great Sunday wit the kids and Mickey
fear	tweets	@nikki_78 yes i have to agree it does
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mommies
love	tweets	@EdoCH thanks!! Yes!! A lot!
love	tweets	@WollemiPine Or nudge the partner! Good birthday/ christmas/ I just want to buy you something gift!
love	tweets	@Shannannagin haha. Thanks Shannon.  3 out of 5 boats got first.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers
fear	tweets	@jimmietryon You can use it for #iPhone app dev.
love	tweets	@mileycyrus tell everybody i said happy mothers day!  love ya! #1 fan love you miley you rock
love	tweets	shes so cute when shes sleepy
love	tweets	I'm addicted to the Jonas Brothers' new single 'Paranoid'! It's awesome!! If you haven't heard it already, go check it out!!
love	tweets	@MariahCarey Happy Mom's Day!  Here in Spain it was last Sunday!! Any hint of when the first single will be out on radio? LYM!!  Mini
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	Mothers day today!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there! Just finished having lunch with my  relatives. I wuv you mommy and granny.  HAHAHA.
love	tweets	@suckaMC alright cool. See you tomorrow  thank you!
fear	tweets	@ MsRobynp  thank u for that
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there! Special shout to my momma...Luv ya! And Pat....even though you're a Jehovah's Witness
sadness	tweets	Missing @smartbrain from BKK na.
fear	tweets	Bye. Tekzilla, then revision.
love	tweets	happy 1 year! &lt;3
love	tweets	wants to greet all the moms a Happy Mother's Day!!
fear	tweets	@anyidiot I think we could be related
love	tweets	happy mother's to all the moms out there..
sadness	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
fear	tweets	Not to worry, noone got that one. Next question starts in 1 minute, get your thinking caps on
love	tweets	@Zac_Efron 17 Again was amazing! I have seen it three times! It's just hilarious, and you are fantastic!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers.    Have a beautifully blessed day!
fear	tweets	@erica_lick sounds like you need a week of digital detox
love	tweets	happy mommy day!!
sadness	tweets	@teksone No, I'm in the US for the weekend not the UK
love	tweets	@melvin_16  Hope u had a lovely lunch Mel   Your Dad's place sounds nice , I love polished floorboards  .
fear	tweets	@mylesagnew NICE! Got any that are indexed that you want to unload?  I need a few.
love	tweets	happy momies day!
love	tweets	@JENakaGorgeousB happy mother's day to your mom
fear	tweets	@SheriRocks What are u doin Sheri?!
love	tweets	@halian: Happy Mother's day to my Mother. Thank you for being such an awesome mother
fear	tweets	@jacquelinesteps Thanks!  Actually, when I first got my twitter, my pictures wouldn't upload either. But they upload, it just takes a
love	tweets	Had a nice chat with an old frnd... its been a while since v talked  was fun...
sadness	tweets	Waiting for the bus back from cripple creek to pick up the twizzler town seems kinda quiet tonite    *rolynn719*
fear	tweets	@jairodriguez you are super hot on your show
love	tweets	made this for you when i got home from wango tango http://bit.ly/1UjzQ    what a wonderful day.
love	tweets	@therealsavannah I know you would be successful. And you're just starting. You would do great in the coming years. Good luck to you
love	tweets	Cant believe how lucky i am to have such an amazing boyfriend
love	tweets	And on that note im going to bed happy mother's day to my mommy +&amp; all the other mom's out there love u lady
fear	tweets	@bsbaegirl unfortunately I know I would like them - which is why I am avoiding them,
fear	tweets	is at denny's right now with the group. prom was fun
sadness	tweets	about to go to my boo's pad
love	tweets	The best thing I have ever done is carry and birth a child
love	tweets	@carinafox5 Wishing you a very Happy Mother's Day, Carina!!  Hugs...Joy
love	tweets	@Sammysamsam5 That movie made me cryHARDCORE!!!!!  I loved it...
love	tweets	@spahkleprincess it's my fave!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there!  You are all amazing, and we would be nowhere without you!  Thanks for being our moms
love	tweets	a slightly less disturbed night, after a while, which is a Good Thing. Looking forward to some quality time with my toadtastic boy
love	tweets	@princesssuperc you were amazing on snl!! loved it!
fear	tweets	@amysav83 you'll be fine  don't worry ... good luck again
love	tweets	Pretty amazing weekend so far  but its bedtime ,, I'm exhausted ! Mothers day tomorrow  nighty night
love	tweets	I loved Star Trek. It was so awesome. And the effects were brilliant! &quot;Live long and prosper.&quot; Hehe. I wanna see it again
fear	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the beautiful Moms out there.  (I'm kind of a Mom, i think my little pup counts!  )
love	tweets	@jordanknight Hey JK...Wish Evenlyn a Happy Mothers Day tomora for me..I had a Great Day, my gift will be tickets to see ya's ere in Oz
sadness	tweets	@DirtyLiz It's because we're right
fear	tweets	@dagadong  probably why he's still married to Joan perhaps?
love	tweets	@LaneySmiles you know you lvoe me!
love	tweets	@karaokevegan Happy Mothersday
sadness	tweets	is feeling good.. kinda tired.. miss him... can't wait for grad this weekend!!
love	tweets	@jacquelinesteps Haha you're welcome! I was honestly going crazy too. Have a great night as well
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
fear	tweets	is off to Body Power Expo! Thanks to Mike at Performance Network for the free tix!
love	tweets	@NKOTBSummertime LMAO. Joey is mine  I cant wait to meet them in july!
fear	tweets	@nsane8 @Icametumbling  Whether that's good or bad, I can't disagree with you there.
love	tweets	Star Trek was so good Im seeing it a third time...corse I do work at the movie theator
love	tweets	@chaosd1 I love you, baby
love	tweets	@Naughtycowgir1 I LOVE music!!!  I like almost everything!!
love	tweets	@verma it was an awesome talk  find it very true that i am watching the ruby community closely
love	tweets	@mini_ritz thnx sweetie  how r u this evening? xo
love	tweets	@waynemansfield thanks....
love	tweets	@misterfuji I've always been pretty athletic, I especially love b-ball. Anyway, yeah I can run
love	tweets	@KimKardashian Ciara was great at SNL..Kim...you were mentioned on SNL tonight..Justin T was really good also
fear	tweets	just did my bit to stimulate the economy
fear	tweets	its like 2 in the morning..sometimes I just don't know exactly what is best to do..but I will def. figure it out!  ...HAPPY MOMS DAY!
fear	tweets	@pamjob yay  i'll do you a heart mk shout in a sec pam
love	tweets	@creamspyder  thanks  you've been quiet lately!
love	tweets	is happy mothers day!
fear	tweets	@ ginniejean there's a lot of mojo all over the place...  yes.
love	tweets	@freddurst I am semi in love with you. Just so ya know
fear	tweets	@RedJeans542 I have to pee.
fear	tweets	Hope everyone is okay, especially Americans who are affected by the fire or the Swine flu(h1n1) . OKay, I should pray for them
fear	tweets	@Lukevdp Actually people were more decisive than that.
fear	tweets	I was feeling guilty about buying a luxurious pair of shoes yesterday until my house mate just saw them and got over excited
fear	tweets	is clamped out...haha
fear	tweets	@ezrabutler ...I wonder if the Dog is thinking the same thing....   #fml
love	tweets	@KenFTWIN I just started watching 30 Rock too, borrowed seasons 1 and 2 from my dad   so good.
love	tweets	I love my mommy.
love	tweets	@Lotay haha im jewish, i love that one
fear	tweets	@kristenstewart9 Hi!good luck for the mtvawards, Im sure you're going to win!I hope so!I Love your work! ha you speak spanish? take care
fear	tweets	I chopped a fringe in last night got tired of having it hang in my eyes. Made a mess
love	tweets	@sweet_avenue Love your website! Wish I lived closer to sample the cupcakey treats
sadness	tweets	@unitechy wud like to. But I actually have a free weekend this time and family is visiting. so I'm staying put. next time
love	tweets	@Chet6 yep infact she is popular, miss india 99, talented film actress .... and lot more
love	tweets	@thisgelly @missneecie Happy Mother's Day to both of yall.  from me and my boys...
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY.!
love	tweets	I love crowded cars  and Ayanna!
love	tweets	@lionschmion Honey I don't think you're kidding for a MOMENT, I feel that your dedication to the gorgeous smirky men is STRONG indeed!
love	tweets	@DavidArchie Good morning David! Happy Mother's Day to your mom lol. Too bad u can't be with her. She is so awesome!
sadness	tweets	Only just past 8am and already been spoiled rotton
love	tweets	@NKOTBSummertime Sweet i'm 5'3 so perfect for me
sadness	tweets	@DaveStyles Haha yes and that is BS! all men lie. show me one who doesn't and I'll marry him
fear	tweets	i changed my picture  i am soo screwed, i have an assignment due tomorrow that i havent started, i just cant concentrate argh
love	tweets	helll yeah  i found a melon bar in the freezer ....mmm best cure for my hangover
love	tweets	Toris was SO fun! JB MOVIE WAS ABSOLUTELY AMAZING! and i had a good day at work!  YAY i loved the movie! :0
fear	tweets	@colinkelly thanks colin hearing that bad knee Imor not il crawl over the finish line  your a wee star
fear	tweets	Morning, up early to travel to today's game but reli happy my bro is coming to watch me  x
love	tweets	@TomFelton Aww Stanley, have you still got him, they can live for like 20 years right?  x
love	tweets	Pretty sure my kitties missed me...one is laying on me and the other 2 are on each side of me. They are so cute though.
love	tweets	@rowsell you really chose the wrong time of year to do this didnt you
love	tweets	This is dedicated to all those moms out there - Happy Mother's Day  ? http://blip.fm/~5z2g9
love	tweets	@farewellcup thank you for the re-tweet
love	tweets	@beyondthestars omg! shannon Happy Birthday!!!! I'm celebrating for you!
love	tweets	@adityamishra yeah next time
love	tweets	@TEAMJAYDENICOLE love the background! those are my fave pics of them when they're at the beach!  thanks for the follow!
sadness	tweets	off to mothers day brunch with the gang. YAY!!!!! It's not the Zoo, but should be just as much fun.
love	tweets	@DavidArchie morning David! i hope you're able to contact you're mom for Mother's Day!she seems really sweet  i guess you get it from her!
fear	tweets	@MarkMayhew ha! lemme know what you find (tho I suspect it will be a lot of complaints). Have a peaceful night my friend
love	tweets	is awake earlier than expected but is in a good mood and the sun is out
sadness	tweets	@dangercharlie you're welcome char, glad you liked the cake, it's pretty simple you should give it a try
love	tweets	@libras_art That would be the one.  It's awesome sauce.
love	tweets	i love the music video of you belong with me by taylor
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day to allMothers, Cheers!!
fear	tweets	@mandysaturn13 @_Bella_Cullen13 posted and its good
love	tweets	@indigofish911 Ooooh! I thought eggos were some kind of synthetic egg or egg sustitute or something. You crazy Americans
love	tweets	@patofnavar Dylan Dont think twice.
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
sadness	tweets	just got back from..ahem, meal#4...was boring but had to eat nonetheless
fear	tweets	Calling it a night .... talk to yall tomorrow
love	tweets	haven't twittered in forever. yeah, just had my sixteenth birthday party tonight
love	tweets	ending my evening on the best note.  i will love you forever, tweets.
love	tweets	@delamarRX931 haha, happened to me a lot of times. Know the feeling. Happy mums day to ur mom too delle
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all mothers including my own mom!
love	tweets	@akingbayo umm i like lucas and peyton  wbu ?
fear	tweets	@disang iya, nyokap gue pernah berkata demikian  :-|  and it's so hard to share what we have
fear	tweets	@Rayyychell They're for my mama  I always bake late and get worried that the mixer is gonna bother people.
love	tweets	@Chaela12312 yay, I'm glad  THOUGH MAN I WANTED TO SEE IT
love	tweets	Gotta get up early to spend some time with my mommy before I go to work, so I'm off to bed. Goodnight twitter
love	tweets	well.. i just saw the dead zone for the first time. its a good TV show. @ddlovato is back
love	tweets	God, i lOVE quizzes. when i get my phone im gonna be on it 24/7 doing facebook quizzes.
love	tweets	is getting married in Vegas in November by an Elvis impersonator am so happy!!!
sadness	tweets	I am usually more creative on Mother's Day but lately I have not been feeling creative. O.K.. Good Night.  uh Morning...
love	tweets	off to pearlyn's place - gran's bday + mothers' day dinner tonight!  mom went for adults' svc today!!!  (L) happy mothers' day moms!
fear	tweets	@snoopmikey will terminator be on next week's TRS by chance? and i dont mean tuesday's release, but the next
love	tweets	@ahoova Thanks, that was gonna be my next tweet...You the man  Figuratively speaking
fear	tweets	new photo   im hungry...getting off the computer now!
fear	tweets	@foprof LOL.  Leave a kid on internet and the kid will do stupid things.
fear	tweets	Here  dude we got here n a table readyyy fo us
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all Mums on Twitter
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!!!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day to all the Mothers in my life
sadness	tweets	@parboo LOL - Birmingham was my 1st love... but it's time to move on! ;) Good Morning
love	tweets	3:31 loved the rain this morning,
love	tweets	wishes that you would see not with your eyes but with your heart.  http://plurk.com/p/sv5bb
fear	tweets	@godlessgirl ha, great description of your jealousy I must say.  I will upload a pic 2morrow.  the tat actually represents free-thinking
fear	tweets	@twilightfan01 Lol, me too!!
sadness	tweets	Star Trek movie: riveting. Soundtrack: superb. Overall experience: fantastic. Alyssa jumping at german shepherd: priceless.
love	tweets	Happy mothers day mom.. i love yew...
love	tweets	happy mothers day!!
fear	tweets	@tooshort55 it'll probably come out like I'm drunk or something...I'll be so nervous!! LOL...thats why we will be there to help eachother
sadness	tweets	At social.  just saw G-1.. Awwww
love	tweets	GoodMorning, Hope Everyone Has A Beautiful Day Today  x
love	tweets	With My Boy Still  He's everything to me
fear	tweets	Home now  phone with jason and it's off to bed i go  good night and good night
fear	tweets	@wildmanrouse cool shot!
fear	tweets	@BizChamp yes! it definitely paid off ... thanks 4 the advice
sadness	tweets	@juliegoodacre I was thinking of changing it but it is a hassle for everyone who follows us so I get to be Jason
love	tweets	I am in total love with my Lip ring...more than all 12 of my piercings...it is my ut-most favorite
fear	tweets	@DHughesy @rove1974 dudes, c'mon - that's almost the ghey!
sadness	tweets	@solangeknowles you are so freaking awesome Solange. Happy mother's day. i wish i had a mom like you...sad. blah. but best wishes!
love	tweets	@ Ember with Dante... I have so much fun with him  can I smile any harder...
love	tweets	@JoeEGO I never 4get bout u .. Your my boyfriend #2... whom I lovesssss down .. Let's chill this week
fear	tweets	Exhausted but happy  supercool gig at Love amazing crowd amazing club so happy to be there! Now off to sleep for a few hours
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day. Take ur mothers into a special place.
sadness	tweets	@NikkiBenz i hope so, recorded the pit/was game to find out it didnt record... lucky it wasn't the leafs, i woulda lost it by now
sadness	tweets	aww thats wikid, i need to book myne again sooon  miss you to lovely!! im off ned some brekkie.. speak soon dudde xxx
fear	tweets	@kelsistoudt kels i think i figured this out.. and yer my only real friend on here so im pretty much just stalking you
love	tweets	Steak and shake with ramon, matt, and chris.
sadness	tweets	@joooo The rest of the week is less than 2.5 hours long
sadness	tweets	just got home! LET US ALL BE CONNECTED WITH GOD, CONSTANTLY!
love	tweets	Oh, and yippee for Lyn-Z Way who gets to celebrate Mother's Day for the first time as a mother.
love	tweets	Best day at park for Mother's day -- love my Mum to bits!! Massive weekend tho -- wee bit weary but super content!
love	tweets	Yes, I love tea. If that makes me typically English then so be it
love	tweets	@juleswriteslove you're absolutely welcome.  i love you too and am happy i was able to help make that moment happen.
love	tweets	@mileycyruuus Hi  You are such a babe. Want to hang? I love you ! xD
fear	tweets	Sleep is not coming easy. Sleeping pills. Need them. Maybe this is why my mind is soo wild lately. No sleep=craziness. Proven fact!
fear	tweets	hairspray on tv!
fear	tweets	[ I'm not sure what you mean by &quot;blowin this joint&quot;?? &quot;] rb@ladypn lol lol good one......  ? http://blip.fm/~5z2zo
love	tweets	@BB517  lol he does love spahkly gold things....
fear	tweets	just came bak from dancing with my NEEWWWW cd  haha im dancing again
love	tweets	Long day of dancin, travelin, and celebrating life  happy mothers day!!
love	tweets	is the luckiest girl in the world &lt;3
love	tweets	@MariahCarey The first thing she said means &quot;Your new album is really good&quot; and the second thing, &quot;Don't it's broken&quot;. I am Persian!
love	tweets	Dang baby i love you ma
fear	tweets	Just got home. :3 Was pleased with Star Trek.
love	tweets	is at the salon with my mom  happy mothers day mom!
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY to everyone lucky enough to be a mommy. extra special happy to @LuciIrene who became a mommy 2day
love	tweets	[Dashboard - Modest Mouse] First Modest Mouse blip! Oyay, not bad.  ? http://blip.fm/~5z309
fear	tweets	i had a vivid dream last night! i was crooning away
love	tweets	@lilmisssunstar will do! Tell my mommy I said the same n I love her mucho mucho!
love	tweets	I just received a mothers day card from my lovely daughter wishing my a happy mothers day  http://tr.im/kWK9
love	tweets	The Star Trek movie was amazing! omg everyone has to go see it
fear	tweets	These nice boys realized that we were too short to see over them at the concert and moved   Ugggg, now it's time to pack.  Early flight.
fear	tweets	@iantalbot It was indeed a lovely evening. Over far too quickly  I got home at 1115 in the end. Coffee in bed this morning
love	tweets	I am tired of my phone. Walkman works like a charm, but l need better video and wap really. Thanks for yesterday and for buying my album
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Mommiessss
love	tweets	@Bern_morley LOL I love your kids
sadness	tweets	@davecandoit dude that honest to god happens to me all the time.. minus the trail mix.
fear	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to the tweetin' mamas  Nite tweeple!
sadness	tweets	In a lazy sunday; just had a very late lunch,and forget to buy PR,we're on page 16
love	tweets	@camilleprats http://twitpic.com/4woj2 - omgssh  ang cute ng bby.!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Mom's out there I happen to have the greatest Mom in the world  I love my Mom she's my best friend
fear	tweets	@bubbalou1969 Morning Lou, I Have some housework to do then im off to Church
sadness	tweets	rain drops keep falling on my head..
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY TO ALL THE MOMS OUT THERE !!!
love	tweets	Today felt so much more crazy than it was!!  I digg the new addition to the family! there pretty cool
sadness	tweets	@JayceiiNc im disgusted as well and baron, spelling lessons homie!! haha it's &quot;effort&quot; and &quot;team&quot; r u shwasty? shloshed?  i love you
sadness	tweets	@HilzFuld Patience, it's worth it
love	tweets	hahaha. tea at grandma's was sweat. yep.
love	tweets	Took yesterday off &amp; treated myself to an outfit &amp; shoes, I have not treated myself in a while, my mothers day gift to me
love	tweets	@troublebrother no, stay and play!!!
love	tweets	Favorite little cartoon movie in the world
sadness	tweets	@DespinaCook or least for the firmware upgrade. just buying some time until I get my tax return really
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!!!  &lt;3
love	tweets	Can you tell that *Someone* has been reading Knowledge of the Holy by A.W. Tozer?    All his work should be required reading.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day to all mum's in america
love	tweets	Wow Justin Timberlake on SNL tonight was hilarious! You gotta love that dude!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to every single mom out there. I love my mommy
love	tweets	@heycassadee thanks for following, it means a lot to me  i love hey monday!
fear	tweets	Happy Mother's Day. . .
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4woxf - Hehe, I flew a plane.. the pink t-shirt is me
fear	tweets	@captainludd I will have to see the unveiling of your new LR arrangement!  Is there an official event planned
sadness	tweets	rblpnqte @sheryonstone: &quot;sheesh I am sending one up to you @ladypn.  I think you could use it  lol&quot; RB DELUX... ? http://blip.fm/~5z36j
love	tweets	just finished my mothers day gift  ill post the link after she sees it!
sadness	tweets	Early morning walkies really aren't my thing... at least it's vaguely warm
love	tweets	Made coffee cake for her mom
love	tweets	says HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY!  http://plurk.com/p/sv70e
love	tweets	@paudevera Oh sure  I'M IN LOVE WITH THEM ?
fear	tweets	@rocketman528 How are you?
love	tweets	@walkingthetalk So true Donna  Wish you a joyfull sunday ~Siddy
fear	tweets	@tonyt787 I read them a couple of weeks ago  They work really well with the movie.
sadness	tweets	Just woke up from nap and then ate nasi padang and pisang cokelat
fear	tweets	*sigh* Off 2 bed 2 try 2 get these crummy 2 hrs of sleep b4 my horrid 12 hour day..smh. Niterzzz evry1. Don't let the twitterbugz bite..
love	tweets	it's amazing, makes my heart sing
love	tweets	@alyandajfanatic YAY!! that's so cool  aww that woulda been sweet, no worries though! I'm just glad you had fun!!
fear	tweets	im such a sucker for great cottys
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to yall (and me too!!!) My damn son takin my coolness for a weakness... But it's all good. Keepin it all positive
fear	tweets	Hearing a surprising news about my bestfriend...where are you sis ? You have to tell me the whole story
love	tweets	Out and about in Deal, Kent. More sunshine required me thinks  http://yfrog.com/0egwanj
sadness	tweets	Well twitts I was waiting on a response from @DawnRichard, but she's out partying and having a good time,so maybe some other day!
fear	tweets	Off to enjoy a Hanami picnic at the cherry tree park. Hope the weather stays nice.
love	tweets	@heatherbond I'd love to!!
love	tweets	@BB517  not even a little bit biKnightual  (ha ha... tweedeck doesn't see the spelling problem with BK....ha!) but love it anyway.
fear	tweets	@janeybelle15 morning sounds like hard work
love	tweets	Photovia secondstar05) i dreamt i was doing spells from harry potter yesterday night lol  i loved it. http://tumblr.com/xyt1qynya
love	tweets	sweet nk dreams love you all
love	tweets	@ lovelytrinkets I like the way you worded that about Rocky Road
fear	tweets	FINALLY GOT THE BIKE I WANTED!
love	tweets	Lying in bed with my most favorit girl in the world. happy mommys day to me.
love	tweets	@AniaRysz oh cool i can't wait!! yours are awesome!!!
sadness	tweets	@joooo No, but Geek Minds Think Alike.
fear	tweets	No burgers to be found. New (old) camera to play with though, so that's excellent.
love	tweets	love new shoes  thanks wine lo
fear	tweets	@iamoph Happy mothers day sharon
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day all of the mom's around the world!  I love mine more than anything in the world and can't wait to celebrate! WOO!
love	tweets	@krystynchong Love to see that!
fear	tweets	stilll awakee :] and its 3am
fear	tweets	Oh thank god!  so sad that I'm this happy.
love	tweets	going to bed. good night everyone! i love you all (or should i say good morning?)  sweet dreams
sadness	tweets	@dcal44 Been meaning to email you for months. Your pre-reunion party must be coming up soon. Really wish I could be there. &gt;140 char soon
fear	tweets	@TaoGem I hope you didn't take that quote personally!! I've been throwing them out here and there all day-guess I shoulda waited a bit
fear	tweets	happy 4 all of U who R celebrating mothers day w/ yr moms  i lost MY mom 2 cancer sevrl years ago...
love	tweets	@penitch awwww..... thought it'd be a &quot;yummy&quot; experience.  Will try it next time. Kapag magkakasama ulet tayo nila Mapet ;-)
sadness	tweets	uploading photos. ughhhh, i have to go to school early tomorrow. fml. but woo excursion. i win
fear	tweets	@SteamyDarcy Apple's ads aside, I'd rather have recommendations from real people who have real experience with the iPhone apps I seek.
love	tweets	@Bassisland that is really brilliant!
love	tweets	@SOLAMAYA Went to your site! Would love to help &amp; work with you! I will do whatever I can to help support your cause! Awesome!!!!
fear	tweets	No phone call yett... Hrmm. Maybe a call from my end is in order?  I'll wait a bit longer, Prom nights are often 'spuratic' moments.
love	tweets	@love_the_game GIRL!  Work it! Hope you had the Slammer, and had fun with the Moldovan! I want to hear details!!!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the wonderful MOMS out there. MOMS are what makes the world stay balanced. Have a great Mothers Day
love	tweets	I Love You MOM....alwayyyyyyyssssssss
sadness	tweets	Feeling like crap today. Hopefully a nice relaxing swim will do the trick
fear	tweets	found @grahamcoxon's Spinning Top instead of outtamyleague mp3. pardon me sir. but i promise i'll buy a copy of the cd. i'm saving up
love	tweets	One more thing &quot;Shattered&quot; is an amazing song by O.A.R.
fear	tweets	@2indya anytime
fear	tweets	It's mother day, my mom is still there and better than a week ago, I am happy  Weird knowing it's the last one, tho.
love	tweets	@spanglegluppet thank you for the link! it explains a lot! and I'm glad you're feeling good! I've a friend coming tomorrow. will be fun!
love	tweets	@demiswissfan love you 2  so how are you? xxxx
love	tweets	@saltyboots @teeenuhh happy mommy day Teens-thanks FFF
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all Mothers every where
fear	tweets	@simplyjesslee she's hot     What is up w/ all the unknown followers? I've got quite a few- no clue as to why they're following ME.
love	tweets	@ZnaTrainer Ahhh Music to my ears!
fear	tweets	@noisydogstudio sorry 2 hear albert isnt well? dont know whole story, so i'll keep ya'll both in my prayers. (((hugs))) 2 u both!
fear	tweets	i am a freshman in this site. how to update? help
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers out there! Do have a good and enjoyable day
love	tweets	@avgs I like only the james bond series. Thats what a spy movie is!
love	tweets	@Eganan- I LOVE YOU!!!! YOU MAKE ME SO HAPPY!!!!
sadness	tweets	Sweet dreams!I'm tired  I'm so excited I might actually get to golf in the morning! Family tradition!
fear	tweets	@deedeedet i know. i need to get their cd somewhere.. hopefully they sell it here in finland.
fear	tweets	words to live by  ? http://blip.fm/~5z3ij
fear	tweets	@dspecial1 awww  thanks lol - ermm what happened to the studying !? ha ha
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mums out there, old &amp; new.
fear	tweets	Now comes the fun part  Because you can find only a few offers per country or you live outside US, your changes can be quite tiny.
love	tweets	@shubhamsingal oh I am so sure they do get everything. They live their like celebrities
love	tweets	is Happy Mothers Day.   Taking Mum out for dinner to one of my favourite restaurants down Glenelg now
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	@NathanFillion Your window ledge is decorated quite appropriately. I love it
love	tweets	Ive got the greatest boyfriend in the world. I love him so so much.
love	tweets	http://www.eabeauty.net - The world of beauty and pretty girls   I'm testing new version
love	tweets	@aerform I love you so much.  Just got into my hiding spot, gonna go check out datalounge
love	tweets	@DougieMcfly Haha dude, we have the same b-date :p I'll wish u ur b-day the 3oth November. I'll also turn 16  Can u reply to me please ?
fear	tweets	This is to all the people who have MySpaces: PLEASE ADD!!! http://wwww.myspace.com/fiftyfivethreads it's my friend's clothing line
fear	tweets	@jesssseca i won't make u cry
fear	tweets	@Caps_Girl Girl, those are bangin' shoes!!!  Work it!
love	tweets	@katyperry it's Under a Honeymoon by The Good Life
love	tweets	@therealsavannah Today was fun  &lt;333
love	tweets	@sharonhayes: &quot;Congrats my friend on ruling Canada @iamkhayyam *hugs&amp;gropes*&quot; Just for today I'm #1  ? http://blip.fm/~5z3oi
love	tweets	having a great time with family!! big ups to my bro n sis in law for hanging out  love n peace! {be free}
sadness	tweets	@asombroso bahahaha. I love Gabriel - absolutely fucking hilarious!!!
fear	tweets	@faulko1 was always told to keep sucking something like fruit gums
love	tweets	@And_OKeefe Yay! You're on Twitter! You're my secret celeb crush!  (too much info??)
love	tweets	He brings SOOO much joy!! Show it!!  great song! ? http://blip.fm/~5z3oq http://ff.im/2L63l
love	tweets	@Jewels14333 Happy Mothers Day
love	tweets	OK dear tweeps, goodnight! I need 2 get up early 2 say Happy Mothers Day 2 wife n mom
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day
sadness	tweets	Finally home and exhausted.  Work week is over, but I still expect less than 5 hours sleep tonight.  Happy Mother's Day! I luv you Mom
sadness	tweets	and to think that all I've ever played for is just fun   I suck at marketing and promotion..
love	tweets	get down tonight: http://bit.ly/QxXhi  the bridesmaids, moms, bride &amp; I rockin' the reception
love	tweets	Happy Baby Mommas Day!!  to all the&gt;&gt; MOMMAS&lt;&lt; on Twitterville
sadness	tweets	@guillermop you should.
love	tweets	@dada8dee you tooooo dada!!!  such good times!!
fear	tweets	@kerri_louise so i can just watch that again  x
fear	tweets	@iamcomedy how abt we wait til summer, and do this at ur place...ima need somewhere to stay anyways
love	tweets	yummy yummy ice creammm  i hate heels &amp;whoever made this pair.
love	tweets	scan my childhood photos hahah its soo fun
sadness	tweets	im slowly losing followers one by one.
fear	tweets	Omg soo tired! On my way home! Long busy day ; had fun meeting new people and catching up with some people!
fear	tweets	Huh @kaichanvong ? What's wrong with UNIX environment dev's ?
love	tweets	@PerryMarshall  I was seeing only one side of it, but it looked interesting.  And deep.
love	tweets	@Brandiheyy have a Happy Trip!!
fear	tweets	@4everBrandy Looking forward to your show tonight! Enjoy your time in Belgium
love	tweets	Im sending this to my mother!  http://bit.ly/1aa1RF
sadness	tweets	@theaidenash hey hunny bunny, what's a weekend? is that like a day off or something?
love	tweets	watching W. with jas. i love my brother he's my best friend
love	tweets	@mrskutcher A man loves his sweetheart the most, his wife the best, but his mother the longest. Happy Mother's Day
love	tweets	I really should rant about my bad day but I wont.  I am grateful for my mother, Gma &amp; other powerful &amp; influential ladies my life!!! ILY
love	tweets	Hunny was here today  or should i say last nite. Haha. 5 months&lt;333
love	tweets	great night! great peolple!
fear	tweets	This site made me &quot;lol&quot;, take a look when you can: http://bit.ly/zUjKf
love	tweets	Never better! I had to follow some local Tweeples! It's only right!  @ThaMissus
fear	tweets	@porquechutzpah Their coming tomorrow morning and it's sort of an impossible task. I just need to clear some space. Thanks though
fear	tweets	Woke up really late today. Just had breakfast. Planning to stay home, watch TV shows and do nothing. Eat too.
fear	tweets	Best show of my life. Guess I'm going to sc this week
love	tweets	@kman_19 aw check out what i JUST posted http://eveinbangkok.blogspot.com  i really admire your mom. she's a strong woman. god bless her
fear	tweets	Good Morning!!! Work and then it's ESPN's Sunday night Baseball. hopefully it won't get rained out
sadness	tweets	i have no swine flu! because of the temperature screening here i feel like a criminal with my cold.
fear	tweets	@DawnRichard OMG!! I done died and went 2 heaven...thanks so much 4 the response...I'm cryin' right now...Luv ya!!
love	tweets	@CptCswife Thanks!!!!  Happy Mother's day to you too!!
fear	tweets	@nick_carter http://twitpic.com/3mdce - ONE ROAD, WHERE IS THE DESTINATION?
fear	tweets	@selenagomez u should tell ppl where u'll be in vancouver.
love	tweets	@Claire_Cordon LOL that split second of peace is truly amazing
love	tweets	Had a neat mothers day - nothing flash, just some chillin time with my girls
fear	tweets	@holidayrooms Whoah, slow down, you're filling my screen! Maybe more effective if you spread tweets out?
love	tweets	@roccoman aww you are so helpful  we getting sweepy here, sis says we can have whipped cream before bed , i save u some
love	tweets	@DerrickWayneJr  she was sleep and then she woke up to check on me see if i was cold or hot i love my mom
fear	tweets	Watching &quot;Hostage&quot;! Also got an idea for that animation i'm making. Hope to have it ready and post a link here by the fifth of June
fear	tweets	Chris pine, please be mine.  haha
sadness	tweets	@paulmwatson not gonna ask what a boom boom is!  morning.
love	tweets	happy mommys day!
fear	tweets	oops! ignore last post  meant to be a direct message!
sadness	tweets	Crap. I have lost the game more times today than any other day in history.  #lostthegame (Blame @meekakitty )
fear	tweets	@_ahseya_ cool i want you to take a look at this and tell me what you think
fear	tweets	@jedwhite - hey, they're at least in PST! You &amp; I are even later... wait, that's not good, is it?
love	tweets	I really wanna see the Jonas Brothers in Novemeber but I need to find someone to come with me!  xx
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all the baby mommasss! rofl
love	tweets	@jasminezarasani haha iya. your welcome sist!
love	tweets	home sweet home  sleeping until monday I hope.
fear	tweets	@fromblueskies Just wanted to point out that on Youtube, you have more subscribers than Tom Felton. Thought that might make you happy.
fear	tweets	@natzini Oh no, that's so annoying! I have the same problem - 14 thighs but 10-12 hips! I hope they catch up soon
love	tweets	WISHING ALL THE MOTHERS A VERY SAFE &amp; HAPPY MOTHERS DAY
fear	tweets	Getting anxious for Blink- 182's new album!
fear	tweets	@victoria1810 im so fucking proud of you
love	tweets	i just read the sweetest story in the entire world  love it http://bit.ly/118lGL
love	tweets	Decode by Paramore is a great song... Love it...
love	tweets	@RealWizKhalifa courtney seems like a cool chick &amp; shes pretty
fear	tweets	@igobypambeasley glad you could make it
love	tweets	&quot;Ooh-ooh... it's SHINY&quot;. An dmore awe-tastic quotes from THE BEST ANIMATED MOVIE EVER coming up
fear	tweets	Flap-a-taco was nice until the plebs came in.
love	tweets	Yes! Cold coffee from yesterday. No sugar, no cream !  The way I like it !
love	tweets	@retrorewind ok, i believe you now and it was worth staying up for..joe macs version  i luv being covergirl..will luv it more after next 1
love	tweets	@chasepino oh chase. i love you. you make me laugh &amp; btw you were surely were dropped on the head as a baby.
love	tweets	@KatsManDEW No I LOVE Jordie's version as well as Joe's and Donnie's ALL 3 are DIFFERENT
sadness	tweets	@bluecat7 absolutely tru...the horror of it still washes ovr me sometimes if i think  abt the actual last days, but the gd memories go on
love	tweets	Kinda feeling in a reggae mood.... hope you all enjoy the smoothness on this lovely weekend
fear	tweets	I can't open my eyes properly, maybe if i sleep for a lil' while longer it'll fix itself
sadness	tweets	first time in weeks to see the clear blue sky
love	tweets	lovin' my new blackberry
fear	tweets	@lulaeats how was the ice cream?
love	tweets	Excited!!! Trousers on their way from Topshop, should be here in a couple of days
fear	tweets	@jdlcaro,  In pre-Twitter days, I'd need   to wait  for a formal  invitation  to speak on edu2.0  from @rom  #Y4IT
love	tweets	To all mothers in the world : happy mothers day
fear	tweets	Mama? you're the best thing that ever happen to me. thanks for everything  &amp; and sorry for hurting you... I LOVE YOU!  &lt;3
fear	tweets	@califmom @sendchocolate - we're getting closer rather than further from REAL lobby dates - Chicago, BlogHer09 - squee!!!
love	tweets	@sumtxkid loved our lil tent-side jam session/mosh pit!!! EDGEFESSSSSST!!!
love	tweets	@griffmiester last time I looked, they were about 400. They gave us a demo, so cool
fear	tweets	I feel 5 pounds lighter
love	tweets	@DENISE_RICHARDS A man loves his sweetheart the most, his wife the best, but his mother the longest. Happy Mother's Day
sadness	tweets	Morning all. Up and about and about to wash the car. Remind me; Why did I choose white again??  http://bit.ly/Y92Mb
fear	tweets	4am. And Im on the beach. Pretty
fear	tweets	@konaish Do you know if you text to 40404, it'll go to your twitter after you set it up with the settings.  And FB posts - text to 32665.
fear	tweets	@crazyjen85 gotta love the summer
love	tweets	@kristensaywhaa Good deal! Im doing good thank u   The one about me loving my mom?
love	tweets	Happy muthath's day to all moms!!! I salute you!
fear	tweets	mothers day..didnt do anything exciting...saw a movie
love	tweets	Wishing all the mommies out there a very happy day!!!
fear	tweets	@kaysesoze u drink mor than all th #g1freaks put togetha!
love	tweets	just sitting here watching my babies, life can be amazing afterall
love	tweets	@Joannevance Morning there.
love	tweets	@jimmyfallon Hey Man Congratulations On The Graduation Man You'r World Wide Popular In Philippines
sadness	tweets	SCENE SLUTS AT 4AM IS ALWAYS THE SHIT
love	tweets	@philipwang lol sweet!!! ...i still have yet to watch the 4th movie  hope ur having a lovely weekend! happy mother's day from aus! =P haha
love	tweets	@Morrica Good Morning to you  I trust you are well ?
fear	tweets	a bacon roll and a tea and the (hack)day is your friend  #openhacklondon
fear	tweets	@kay2thetie she's a feisty little cat! she'll keep them on their toes maybe.  yay kitties!
fear	tweets	Another loser: Crap. I have lost the game more times today than any other day in history.  lost.. http://tinyurl.com/qa4cdv (@ilostthe ...
fear	tweets	Recogns he could get his assignments out of the way by June  bring it on
sadness	tweets	Full, thanks for the food Jean  I should have brought that half of the watermelon with me and eat it on the freeway and crash and die.
love	tweets	thinks Aaron is pretty darn awesome
love	tweets	@AppViz Problems seem to be fixed now! Thank you!
sadness	tweets	HaPPy MothErS Day!!! Feliz Dia deLAS MAdres  mine is already in Heaven.. =( Miss you...
fear	tweets	Loves fatty take away nights... yummy  then coming home and facespacing with my roomies
sadness	tweets	@BrandenHaydon Yes, I really do.
love	tweets	&lt;----------- is listening the FUCK out of Lamb of God
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day x3 ..Mum? I love you
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!
fear	tweets	just got home  but about to leave again
sadness	tweets	@london I miss u like cotton candy  &lt;3
fear	tweets	@PinkyNKOTB hi I'm ok   still not feeling great
love	tweets	happy mothers day
fear	tweets	@IIanS I love U2! Lol, I you ever need a slow but good audiobook Oliver Twist is a one I've been listening to lately.
love	tweets	Happy Mom's Day to everyone in the US
love	tweets	The frank black (and his wifey) show was aaaaaaaaaamazing  sd trip is made!
love	tweets	4:15 finally home from the city.  - now time to head to sleep!!  goodnight! &amp; happy mommy's day to all the mother's out there!!
love	tweets	@outlawontheedge Tofurky.... You owe me a new keyboard now!
fear	tweets	OK tweeps.. sorry. too many twitpic. I'll delete those pics as soon as @serephinaa had 'em copied
love	tweets	lohang: is listening to music. really happy about !librefm #audacious combination  here's my profile http://is.. http://tinyurl.com/r5o3zj
fear	tweets	@johncmayer or lester....pitcher for the red sox
fear	tweets	@JustinofG4P i hope you feel better
sadness	tweets	This wraps it up. Well, again a lesson that you shouldn't take nude photos of yourself when you're famous. Or maybe you really should!
love	tweets	My lovely husband made me breakfast in bed this morning. Who says chivalry is dead?
love	tweets	@reags_ that's why twitter rocks!
love	tweets	@itsAnnaFriel Hey Anna.I bet you look so cute when ur blushing
sadness	tweets	@rebelraising Yeah, that lying in bed thing's a bugger for blocking creativity  Worse if you're pinned down by a pet cat, apparently...
fear	tweets	@bgbrwneyesNY hm... i don't I can recommend any white chocolates though.. you have to move to the 'dark' side first..
fear	tweets	@dxpsycho Thanks amigo!
fear	tweets	,:Mother, Happy Mother's Day.... and to all Mom's there......  God Bless yhaw all... ?
love	tweets	just noticed that two of the top ten topics on Twitter right now is &quot;Star Trek&quot; and &quot;Spock.&quot;   That is so cool!    I am in love with both!
love	tweets	Ill catch you at the very last second
fear	tweets	damn - Apple store is down for updates... what's coming, I wonder?
sadness	tweets	@mcrmy_lisa ...one online? Yeah, me
sadness	tweets	Mana - Everything they've ever made since 1986
love	tweets	: So wonderful to spend Mother's Day with my mum.
love	tweets	@wethedan http://twitpic.com/3pb8j - hahahahahahaha why have i never seen this pic?!?!?!?! lmao!! hey look too cute
love	tweets	you know you love your mom when you stay up this late just to wrap her gifts (which look glorious) &amp; hand-make a card.. happy mothers day
love	tweets	Went to the hawksmoor last night and probably had the best  steak I've ever had
love	tweets	@HayleyxWilliams Hey, I love freakin love you
fear	tweets	@BJoie It's my theme song ya know  lol...
love	tweets	mum just made me cry coz she said something so sweet to me  i love her so much! MUMS ARE THE BEST!
love	tweets	just got home. Yay!  Hi guys! http://plurk.com/p/svdpu
love	tweets	@JordansUKgirl jonathan tweeted a happy mothers day  but that is all..lots from dave @retrorewind though
love	tweets	@isacullen  yay thanku! *hugs*
love	tweets	@meanpower si de cand ai twtad?
sadness	tweets	@yan_ming @affascinare me is gg for summer sch though.. not attachment... yan can go see the blog. check my msn or ask kinny
love	tweets	ofcourse they start fightin aight the party buts its cool theyu held it down now im chillin with my home girl  HAPPY MOTHERS DAY
love	tweets	@DonnieWahlberg Ready and waiting Donnie   We love you too
love	tweets	What a fun night
love	tweets	@cow_grrrl   You have the sweetest children.  You are obviously a great mom. I loved reading your blog w/ their msgs to you.  Kudos.
love	tweets	@RetroRewind How much longer is the NKOTB Block Party? Love it! I need to go to bed so just wondering what time it's over..LOL..thanks!
sadness	tweets	@KiwiLucy ahhh ;) I know who wins the entire thing, I TRY to avoid these things but it never works
love	tweets	says again.. happy mothers day to all your moms  http://plurk.com/p/svdsh
love	tweets	Here again  how are u all??
love	tweets	@cathjenkin hehe  with milky white skin, dressed in silver spider's silk, with a crown of snowflakes ...
fear	tweets	@johncmayer if ur as awesome as i think u are u would sooo write me back  a lil something   &lt;--- crossing fingers
fear	tweets	so now that I have a whole 20 followers, 5 of them actual people, I don't know what to write in here anymore
love	tweets	i love my mommy
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY MOM!
love	tweets	thx for all the nice &quot;it's going to be alright&quot; mails ... and yes, of course you can leave a comment on my blog ! cheers, i ll be napping
fear	tweets	@johncmayer Lester?  Guessed her?  Yester-day?  You can think of something.  No cop outs now.
love	tweets	@caarooliineex3 I love the guy that was standing behind me
sadness	tweets	@Curren$y_Spitta Was caught in traffic around the Howlin Wolf for about 30mins. I was wondering WTH was going on.....musta been nice!
love	tweets	@ThatSillyLily haha i only love you too sissy!!!!!  ring power! lol
fear	tweets	@azharusman Walaikum assalam...  Alhamdulillah... I'm in Chicago the w'end of May 29th... Are you there? Would be nice to meat... Duas!
fear	tweets	@drumzonly yay. das tut trotzdem weh.
love	tweets	Porridge with nutmeg, rasberries and honey  mmmm
fear	tweets	About to make shit happen  *Pu+ !+ 0n M3*
love	tweets	nice baked spaggetti for family &amp; not out to grandparents house!
fear	tweets	@kaleidoscopeFTW But he got to do it with Effy!
love	tweets	@SashaGrey http://twitpic.com/4wixz - Your such an interesting girl. So much potential in so many ways.
fear	tweets	@kathyIreland super stressful day &amp; can't sleep...glad I found you your so sweet to take the time to make strangers feel good.
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight @jorddanknight Happy Mother's day to your Mum
fear	tweets	@SoTravelNow Hey - Thank you!x and You're Welcome! Must say - I love to travel and where are you at the moment?!x
fear	tweets	big hair rock day today me thinks  here I go again to start xxxxx ? http://blip.fm/~5z4p7
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!  http://tinyurl.com/re74xc
fear	tweets	@JessicaBooth LOL @ozdj said to look out for you - but I was in canberra -
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all..
love	tweets	Love my mommy happy mothers day
fear	tweets	I really need to turn my swag off it's 3:30 time for bed!
love	tweets	@johncmayer ur really the sweetest person ever! thanks for making everyone's dreams come true..(p.s) my dream is for u 2twitter me back  x
love	tweets	loving my new tv
sadness	tweets	trying to do a blend. i know, i suck at them but there's no harm in trying.
fear	tweets	@TferThomas  We are both following and I don't think I have seen him online lol
fear	tweets	Crap i'm gonna miss the grand prix.I'm going to have to try and sneak back to the room
love	tweets	mothers day at the spit was awesome!!!!!!!  listening to Paranoid by The Jonas Brothers!!!!!!!!!
fear	tweets	Didn't make to my cousin's yacht convention. Hope he doesn't get upset. And hope he won.
love	tweets	@RobertKazinsky Congratulations on the award - totally deserved
love	tweets	@sanjana_58 I also like 'Aasman ke paar shaayad'
love	tweets	Repeat final seconds of Game 3 Dal-Den please! DAMN THOSE OFFICIALS. :| Anyway, happy mothers day.
fear	tweets	@AnnoyingTweeple You having fun LOL? hehe
love	tweets	@JonathanRKnight @jordanknight Happy Mother's Day to your Mum
love	tweets	@Health4UandPets Hi Lisa, you have the most BEAUTIFUL pups! HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!2 Raven, Rio&amp; Thors WONDERFUR mama!!  *kittykisses*
fear	tweets	Still feeling tired, tink will go take a nap again n wake up durin dinner time.
love	tweets	oh what a night love me some aces
love	tweets	Back from cycling 20 miles on virtually traffic free roads,the sun almost shining,new PB great start to the day
love	tweets	wishes happy mothers' day to all moms out there.
love	tweets	@kkindlen and @MandaBown thanks  hoping its just allergies and not a nasty flu!
love	tweets	@just_another_1 yeh I can't even imagine.... good luck to them
fear	tweets	going out with my tita gi, sister and my beloved lola! Were going to treat her for dinner! Wohoo... So excited and hungry...
fear	tweets	Wedding anniversary meal yest. - first 5* proper meal out with wife since Rohan born. She did well and only checked her phone 80 times
fear	tweets	#Happy Mother's Day euch allen
love	tweets	Off to mass, Happy Mum's day to your mums
love	tweets	@icemist @sankeertanan Have fun! Wish your mums a happy mother's day for us!
fear	tweets	@Hyperopia That's gorgeous. I'll check out your new pics!
fear	tweets	Bout to hit the sack...got shit to do tomorrow. Happy mothers day MOM!
love	tweets	Happy mother's day to my sweet mum
love	tweets	happy birthday to me!!
love	tweets	@geishadoll you're welcome Chica
fear	tweets	i need to make more of an effort to meet some of my best online friends like @aryanmaine  &lt;3 but damn the money it costs D:
love	tweets	@zoriancrx It's the &quot;Vampire tarot of the eternal night&quot;, Lo Scarabeo, going to be released sometime this autumn  Cool, huh?
fear	tweets	@johncmayer esther rhymes with: investor, tester, jester, pester, polyester, semester, sylvester, requester... just to name a few
fear	tweets	Sheena Othman Happy Mother's Day to all mothers in the world......  I'm yet to experience the joy of being a m.. 31: Sorry, but you ha ...
love	tweets	@steve_w_a cool, looking forward to it now
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
love	tweets	@demiswissfan awesome  thats what im likewith the song paranoid. its stuck in my head! and i love it  lol xxxx
love	tweets	@Holly59 you certainly can, and good morning to you
love	tweets	i love my mummy
love	tweets	Sitting in mels house, just finished eating mcdicks, laughing at all the dumb stuff I said tonight!! Ready for bed? I think so
fear	tweets	rblpnBro @dhair Not quite where I need to be here ... sad but true. Soon however all will be WELL  6wks ? http://blip.fm/~5z4ve
fear	tweets	Shooould be sleeping already, but got caught up watching some late night 'Roseanne'. Officially off to bed after the next episode!
love	tweets	@melidm luv the vid!! can't wait to hear it live on summer tour  luv how d always shows is drawers and nice moves by joe mac..
love	tweets	@Ali_Sweeney - Happy Mother's Day, Ali  I hope you have a great day today! Hugs and kisses from The Netherlands xoxox
love	tweets	happy mothers day, love u mom
sadness	tweets	Today I wrote two songs (one for temple which I will probably never perform ever) and one for mothers day. Happy vesak everyone  rena xoxo
love	tweets	@lis0r i love electro house
love	tweets	wants to wish all the moms out there (and moms-to-be) a very happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	already knows 3 dishes: Torta, Hotdog, &amp; Itlog. Hurrah for me!
fear	tweets	why wouldn't I?
fear	tweets	@NovaWildstar Erm yeah watch as it sways and collapses into the river below lol.  Next time you are here we shall have to drag you there
fear	tweets	finally tommorow is monday.. and the last day of school.. gonna miss them all,  preparing for holiday. i prefer go to bali yeaaay
love	tweets	i am outta here... see you guys later (or tomorrow)... happy mom's day again!
love	tweets	@MariahCarey MC, happy mother's day to your mom ;).. love yah
love	tweets	I think I might fall in love with jihoon in boys over flower.
love	tweets	And thanks for the gorgeous flowers.
love	tweets	@Suzyqbee10  very sweet!!! HAHA. I am like super proud to be a new mom!!! I feel like, i got the PERFECT daughter. And i am a GREAT mom!!!
love	tweets	Ahhh mothers day  My first one YAY!!!
sadness	tweets	2,697 views on my FLickr Account.. Maybe is not much for you...  but I'm happy  ... YAY http://www.flickr.com/photos/bonassin/
love	tweets	@nicolerichie Happy mother's day! Hope you have a great one with Harlow, your mom and those you love  You're such an awesome mommy! ^^
love	tweets	Gossip girl &amp; pizza on the way = thank you to my lil babe
love	tweets	@G_E LOL yeah I had a few slices of cheddar cheese b4 sleeping.
love	tweets	@chantelleaustin  Good one
sadness	tweets	@yiannis_k good question  could they?
fear	tweets	@TheRealYungBerg FOLLOW ME BABY U SAID N DA CHAT U WILL  LUV YA GOODNITE
love	tweets	@deena_p aww thanks
love	tweets	@Tyrese4ReaL thanks, I deserve it.
love	tweets	such lovely weather, i wanna go out!
love	tweets	@markparton just going through some of his tracks in iTunes and buying his awesome tracks I don't have. Loving it
love	tweets	@DaLzz Nice glasses. Looks good
love	tweets	@nevrothwen thank you! It's sunny outside so that's a good start
love	tweets	just got in. I have the best friends
love	tweets	at @JonasBrothers   Happy mother's dayyy Deniseee &lt;3
sadness	tweets	Hitting the sack now, fellow Twitterheads...so, where are you treating your Mom today?
love	tweets	Happy Mommy's Dad Mommy  watching the football  Yay The Eagles Are WINNINGGGGG  they better keep it up *sigh!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day  &lt;3
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day Everybody!!!!!!
fear	tweets	@twebbstack haha &amp; you can tell your kids how I was the one who hooked youz up  lmao
love	tweets	happy mother's daaaaaaaaay
fear	tweets	church bellss are ringin  got to go. adieu,(god bless in german)
fear	tweets	@AubreyODay happy mommas day . ging is so lucky to have a momma like u  enjoy ur nite! luv ya
love	tweets	happy mother's day, mom  I hope the breakfast was nice.  I love u ?
fear	tweets	@debraoakland  Only telling the truth Dibster
love	tweets	@Bleau thanks for the retweet, man  having a quiet Sunday morning... how's yours?
love	tweets	got THE best mothers day present from Tys. It made me cry uncontrollably, and it wasn't a present
love	tweets	Spending a wonderful Mothers Day with Brad, Mom and Dad.  Happy Mothers Day to all Moms
sadness	tweets	Just been asked to sing yet again....aha. coffee mornin this time. psychology past questions&amp;revision suck!
love	tweets	going out for the good ol' 'soak' tonight for a mothers day feed.       in love more then ever
fear	tweets	and we're in
love	tweets	@PerezHilton Guapisimo, chico you and Ms. Lady Gaga looked amazing as usual
sadness	tweets	can't believe the weekend is over already!  Where does the time go?  Had a nice day with the fam. today.  Mum had a good day too.
love	tweets	@timmcclintock gasp!!! I love it!!! Thank you so much for sharing Tim!!
fear	tweets	@Gardenwiseguy This is truly enlightening for me
fear	tweets	Mariachi'nin yeni kampanyasi ve beraber gelistirdigimiz Facebook Uygulamasi (Shut The House) Hurriyet'e haber olmus: http://tr.im/msthhh
sadness	tweets	is working it out allll day long.
love	tweets	Thumbs up to Wolverine, Taco Bell Cheese Roll-ups, and mothers... you're all the best
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day, amma!  I made u cake, remember? U loved it!
fear	tweets	1:40 am...seriously can't sleep. I heard the last thing you should do is be on the computer when you can't sleep. hmmm. what do they know
fear	tweets	All ready for work... except my arm
fear	tweets	@Do38 home? where the heck are you? Ima be home so soon! iA!
fear	tweets	@Sion71 Indeed plenty of jokes to be had  Lying on bed hoping it's going to free up, I'm on Jury service tomorrow...
fear	tweets	nite nite twitts i wish u all a happy sunday i already have my major gift my my 2kids-my bro-n @_agressiva23 n 1 other gift on d way  tyg
sadness	tweets	Deathstar destroys Starship Enterprice http://bit.ly/2agcTh Can't get enough of this video  #starwars #startrek
love	tweets	feeling, breathing, believing, keeping you on my mind and never ever gonna think to let you go..
fear	tweets	@_Emily_Young_ okey
fear	tweets	@DougieMcfly Haha dude, we have the same b-date :p I'll wish u ur b-day the 3oth November. I'll also turn 16  Can u reply to me please ?
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	@xxmarypoppinsxx thanks. Ive got a holiday in a few weeks and also more concerts to look forward to
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to All the Mom's out there!! We Love You!!!
love	tweets	happy mother's day
love	tweets	Happy mothers day to all the mothers out there and to me also
love	tweets	Don't forget it's Mothers Day today, guys  But a smile on your moms face by giving her a call.
fear	tweets	Got pulled over by a cop, got a warning
fear	tweets	@mromairi They paid you to go? Think before voting, each vote counts
sadness	tweets	@Hanster7705 ahhahahaha ARIYAN  i want to listen to that now  i used up bandwidth by downloading a hamish and andy podcast
sadness	tweets	@ExtremeAnnette I can't seem to find it, can you send it to me again please  oh and tag it too lol
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	@lina83 Like your pics, Lucky Girl, again
fear	tweets	Ed is off to Cornwall with school for a week confused   +
fear	tweets	@johncmayer polyester, protester, quester, semester, sequester...hope this helps
love	tweets	@bdeezy @PleasureNPain lol you guys are awesome
love	tweets	happy mothers day
love	tweets	@AubreyODay god bless u and I hope the rest of your weekend is joyfull
fear	tweets	twitters gettin a lil bit confusin... twitterific?twitdroid?twitterberry? i understant the txt bit tho lol  ah well, twitters cool anyways
love	tweets	Happy Hug Your Mom Day!! love you mom
sadness	tweets	@Jae878 oh yes, i ave never orderd from there, a lil funny at first to do so, i will check it our ta
fear	tweets	@pamjob Thanks
love	tweets	making a Life w/o Bounds! T-Shirt for Second life
fear	tweets	@BJoie I sent u the download link for Spanish &quot;Don't Cry&quot;...let me know when u get it
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!
fear	tweets	@michau Sounds like a good five days
fear	tweets	I am trying to figure out how to use Twitter
fear	tweets	@CokedUpBabyBoy No nothing wrong with thinking he's hot, but he belongs to me
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY to all you wonderful mothers!!
fear	tweets	Oh yea, and I feel really feckin tired today !
love	tweets	hey!! at home about to sleep i cant believe weekend finished so fast! happy mothers day!! good morning and have a great sleep
fear	tweets	@CindiCupcaking that's family for you  imna crash, woke up 630 3 days in a row....lol
sadness	tweets	looking for my sister on facebook, miss you yani
love	tweets	What have you done for Mother's Day?&quot;*people who are a day behind us*&quot;what will you be doing?&quot; I took my Mom to Starbucks, she enjoyed it
fear	tweets	The geeks were out in full force to see Star Trek. Yes, myself included.
love	tweets	@thelast1uthink ZOMG SO CUTE MATT. shit thats a good movie
love	tweets	happy mother's day  &amp; later on i can't wait to see @que_day26 in concert. lol. well ima see all of day 26 but i like him the most ;D
love	tweets	happy mothers day mum
love	tweets	@PerezHilton loving the shoes perez, looking fine as always  oh,and lady gaga, what can I say. Outstanding!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day! Same day, more chocolate
fear	tweets	talking on the phone with someone I've missed a lottt.
fear	tweets	@kutski brill  i'll try and keep an eye on twitter, didn't help yesterday, ran outta battery right when i needed it.
love	tweets	@tonyrobbins &quot;paradise is where I am.&quot; he also said
sadness	tweets	Trying to sleep, watching CNN and thinking about todays meeting at work...Best Buy 24/7 in my life, oh well.. whatever pays the alcohol
love	tweets	DIVERSITY DIVERSITY DIVERSITY TODAYYYYYY!!!!!!!!!!!!!
love	tweets	in Newcastle enjoying the family  With mum on mother's day for the 1st time in years!
love	tweets	Kakabalik lang from Tarlac. Good aftie.
love	tweets	Why do people have 2 be so deceitful and unreal?  But my love for Steve Jones and Channing Tatum has been renewed lol...their soo nice
fear	tweets	@ScubaStev3 jfufnfwucnbqjic im bored
love	tweets	Just got back from 5km run!  It was really good!
fear	tweets	@daniel_beckwith it cant be that good if your twittering instead of watching it  xx
love	tweets	Oh and Cali plans are a GO! I might get to see DA too and she's my hero and rocks my socks
fear	tweets	Getting ready to go to #Brighton to find myself a new suit from #GreshamBlake - Sunday = me time
fear	tweets	has stuff to do but refuses to do them.  :[
fear	tweets	Ugh i can't sleep and it's reallyy gettin to me gahif pisses me off so bad sometimes. Atleast i know who my friends are
love	tweets	@jmarie7481 http://twitpic.com/4vvou - Ok...I LOVE IT!! Melika come on do your make-up like this next time we go out
fear	tweets	Time to wind down and relax a little.  I can only change the world a little through Twitter each evening.  The rest will be up to others.
love	tweets	happy mother's day
love	tweets	Yet another good weekend with someone. Sigh. Man I like the boy..
fear	tweets	@C_DIG up late again I see?  You missed a great time at Donny's birthday... remember to call him on Monday!
love	tweets	@_PurpleRose_ Happy m0ther's day ms. Rhix
love	tweets	Someone left me an anonymous card. Thank you! It was incredible
fear	tweets	Up and about on a Sunday morning after about 3 hours sleep AND alcohol - I should definitely be studied
fear	tweets	@mariancall I'm just glad that you didn't think that Star Trek didn't live up to its hype, and wasn't a waste of your time and money.
sadness	tweets	... sorry GPGMail
fear	tweets	@daveg38 I was thinking that too this morning. Don't worry it soon passes
love	tweets	checked out Green Day on demand &amp; saw the new live videos. U were right, they did blow my mind  I love u SGB, even more all the time, Mom
love	tweets	@CORiNALYNN I had so much fun with my bffs and iyla!!  love you!!!
love	tweets	@bradiewebbstack awww ily you're so sweet
love	tweets	@djneilquigley   Just saw it tonight as well... Great movie!!  Hope you're well mate! Cheers E
love	tweets	@rixx03 How sweet, heart to heart talk with mom!
sadness	tweets	@AshantiGirl HELLOOO!!! How are you?? Gosh I miss seeing you around. Thought of you last night when I had some amarula
fear	tweets	@taltalush I have both her CDs and know them both by heart. Really, Tal, you think you can intro ME to country music?!
fear	tweets	Send Movie recommendations my way please anyone
love	tweets	i'm celebrating my mother!!  and also celebrating my legacy as a woman of God.
fear	tweets	@Soudabeh What happened? ... Doctors don't get sick!   hope you get well soon...
fear	tweets	@TzakShrike and I have a gentleman's agreement: Whoever wins the first match (or is it best of three?) pays for the other person's copy.
sadness	tweets	everybody needs some time on thier own  Guns N Roses x ? http://blip.fm/~5z5kz
fear	tweets	@leelougheed no deal I want it as well as my netbook and iPhone please
love	tweets	@crazylabel Ordered mine, thank you!!
fear	tweets	epic day/night. disappointing loss #canucks but watching star trek made it so much better  live long &amp; prosper friends. night \\//-_-\\//
fear	tweets	@Brutus626 that you got to see your bubb
love	tweets	@LifeofaDQ I am so proud of you
fear	tweets	http://bit.ly/PenQl  I've added a new icon to the feedicon database  Have some fun with it!
love	tweets	@sahilk It was on March 22nd in UK..today all quiet here regarding mothers day  Very sweet of u to wish though..thanks!
love	tweets	self-portrait week http://unbecominglily.blogspot.com/2009/05/announcing.html  would you like to join in?
love	tweets	My brother is making banana shake. Yesterday he made mango shake. He's our shake guy.
love	tweets	Luv you sissy
fear	tweets	I'd rather sit on a bench with a friendly psychiatric patient than go a party with some &quot;cool&quot; person
sadness	tweets	@greggrunberg just showin some love to ya. and i'm really gonna miss Greg Beeman's directing next season. ya'll's commentaries r so funny
sadness	tweets	@princ3sskrys10 lmao I've never met anyone who liked caramel this much
sadness	tweets	@fayewhitaker shame Freud can't follow up on those implications
sadness	tweets	Chris Pine, Zachary Quinto, and Leonard NImoy on SNL tonight was quite possibly the most fun I've had geeking out in a long time.
fear	tweets	Morning all! Something for the weekend and leftover dominos. Noiiiiice
love	tweets	@MrsMW Really worth watching at the cinema.  Mum really enjoyed it
love	tweets	My mom doesn't have twitter but imma post this anyway ..... I love you mommy
sadness	tweets	@giblahoj Oh! It's not the mothers day in France, but in Germany and in the USA that is it
love	tweets	LOVE ME LOVE ME SAY THAT YOU LOVE ME...
love	tweets	Very succesful Cancertown Launch yesterday
love	tweets	@TomFelton d'aaaaawhh you're so cute
fear	tweets	@joelhouston maybe I missed my chance this time
fear	tweets	@daveaitel I'm already here  see you there!
fear	tweets	Do you ever get the idea that your are completely talking to yourself on Twitter?
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL OUR MOMS!
fear	tweets	@p47 Not universal. See http://bit.ly/TmJtz  for details.
love	tweets	happy mothers day mommy  i love you so much, dono what id do without you ??
love	tweets	@sandraschubert This is true... Clean clothes is a VERY good thing!   Enjoy your day! Love your new avatar BTW!
love	tweets	Happy mothers day to all the Twitter moms, sent my own mom a very sleepy video by phone and called after.
love	tweets	@deadmanwade awwww ray you're the best.  it means a lot to me that you say that! i can't wait to hang with you again, hopefully soon!
fear	tweets	with emma  going 2 see diversity today :O  x
fear	tweets	@BrookeDavis_x I've got my essay plan written out now  Looking for a couple of references, then I'll get writing!
love	tweets	@greggrunberg Or a wonderful talking alarm call from I-Phone or Bed side Alarm call! I can just imagine the wake up messages lol
love	tweets	My home made red velvet cupcakes were pretty damn good! now to master the frosting... goodnight!
love	tweets	@RemyBanks Did you see my message mandingo jr.!!..lol. I hope its music i'll like.
fear	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the mummies  oxoxo
fear	tweets	NAPLAN testing, tuesday, wednesday &amp; thursday. i'm afraid about the maths one, english ,not so much
fear	tweets	It's just a click without subscription needed  Vote for my tweet on http://openzap.com/ (in today best list)
love	tweets	@shaundiviney :O:O:O:O:O:O:O You Like Sweeney Todd TOO!?!?!   (Y) Best Movie (Y)
love	tweets	Feeling very grateful for such a great Mum, and family
love	tweets	@PerezHilton you givein lady ga ga arun for her money in that get up hee hee love it
love	tweets	@shinytoyguns you guys ROCKED IT tonight in LA!! Love ya guys and cab wait to see another awesome show soon
fear	tweets	@mayurjango @Blogsdna Yeah eCpm is going UP and down badly - hope things improve
fear	tweets	@Emily_Murtough I'm sure you'll be fine   Have you learnt it?
fear	tweets	A VERY HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL MOTHERS OUT THERE! Mamma Mia - Abba   ? http://blip.fm/~5z5uw
fear	tweets	Number 999. My next tweet must be something really special.
love	tweets	@ShalondaGordon @britneyspears @mrskutcher sending you love on mother's day and wishing you more happiness in the days ahead!
love	tweets	@flamingokitty I'm surprised your bf didn't want to play with u! Although that would require another guitar...Glad u had fun
love	tweets	OMG!!  Booth's hallucination in the latest epi of Bones is absolutely brilliant  &quot;you're a gud lookin guy.. if u keep an open mind&quot; LOL!
love	tweets	@DavidBurke1 morning David have a safe journey and enjoy your time in the states  xxx
love	tweets	@heynadine yayy! i cant wait to see them!
fear	tweets	@ANGiExcoco3 hay wats ur AIM? we should chat
love	tweets	@aljones15 thank you!! ooh I see you've read Desert Islands http://is.gd/ys6K great book!
love	tweets	Good Morning  Jess here  Just wanted to say thank you to everyone following us  tell your friends about us please  xxx
fear	tweets	@stefanz i have a weird subconscience. i wonder who will i dream next
love	tweets	@Beverleyknight enjoy!!!  have a good day. don't forget to twitpic xxx
love	tweets	@taylor_dayne OMG!!! Yr like a goddess to me. Prove yr love &amp; love will lead u back are 2 of my fav old skool tracks  x
love	tweets	Got a Saturdays framed signed foto last night  and a Valentino rossi 1 aswell  eee what a night
sadness	tweets	fighting with mum on mothers day
love	tweets	@andyclemmensen have you seen the game on the website?! awesomness!!! go on msn
love	tweets	@zaneology Correction: &quot;facetious&quot; not &quot;sarcastic.&quot; Apologies.  Oh, and happy Mother's Day!
fear	tweets	i love pink, and i don't care. today i shall not tweet as i have to hardcore work with jamie! have a nice day everyoneeeee  xxxxxxloser
fear	tweets	Thank you all for the huge response w/ blessings &amp; congratulations for us and Anna... We're indeed a family in church  love that so much
love	tweets	@judyrey Thank you, Judy! Same back at you!
fear	tweets	i'm hungry. i want scrambled eggs again. my grandma always makes perfect scrambled eggs. my mum sucks at it. so i'll go make some myself!
love	tweets	says I LOVE YOU MOM  http://plurk.com/p/svm0w
love	tweets	FUCK FUCK FUCK FUCK, @bradiewebbstack please comment me back  ILY
fear	tweets	is suppose to be studying
sadness	tweets	Mmmm Ham  Yummy! I have hat hair...Stupid Deli ._.
love	tweets	@mari_possa Happy Happy Bday Baby Girl. Love Ya!!!! Hope you get EVERYTHING you want
love	tweets	@mari_possa Happy Happy Bday Baby Girl. Love Ya!!!! Hope you get EVERYTHING you want
sadness	tweets	Strange day  I forget all what i can
love	tweets	Morning all  and its a lovely day at last
fear	tweets	@TaylaMcCloud yeah i did haha 3rd episode is up as well
love	tweets	@katelynndivine I just texted you but I hope you know you are my favorite
fear	tweets	@Emily_Murtough Yeah, I know what you mean. I was really worried about it, but the exam was fine, I'm sure you'll do well
fear	tweets	@Tory_x little Taylor? i feel sorry for the way she spells her name
fear	tweets	@SimplyRe A week away from 21 huh!? So what do you wanna sip on - I got 'cha! Shhh... we won't tell  Love you!
sadness	tweets	@askfrasco ooh,,, am fine, how about ya??? I know toooo late,,, sorry for dat....
love	tweets	@devyra haha one day we will have a huge roadtrip
love	tweets	@RealHughJackman Wolverine is awesome.. love it! your such a great actor..
love	tweets	@CMZart you should get your work everywhere.. Articles etc. Love it!
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY MAMMA
love	tweets	@talindab http://twitpic.com/4m9up - ?s this your house ?? The dog is really sweet
love	tweets	i'm looking forward to the joy of the f1.... hoping its another disaterous race for ferrari and button gets another well deserved win
love	tweets	@petewentz eerrrrrrrrr.......... no i would say not.  i heart ur background though!
fear	tweets	is predicting a heavyweight battle between Lakers and Cleveland on the Finals! Well, hopefully! *crosses his fingers*
fear	tweets	Is @ peace with himself happy mothers day to all
fear	tweets	@mileycyrus Airsoft is horrible!! Hope you didn't get hurt
love	tweets	@mileycyrus http://twitpic.com/4ukqe - haha cute and beautiful  U R cool Miley.^^
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Mothers! Especially mine!  Enjoy ya day mothers!
love	tweets	@Grannny63 Happy Mother's Day!  Hugs~
fear	tweets	morning the sun is back!!! me like
fear	tweets	@artgrrl still a bit of a warning signal in my head saying: &quot;you want yesterday's headache back? ok, get yourself a coffee then, quick!&quot;
fear	tweets	sorry to hear that  It's going okay, just tweeting away  @ashleylovegood
sadness	tweets	my shoes taken off and my slippers put on my feet!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day! Will be going out later at 6 pm to watch a well renowned group of singers!
fear	tweets	Just came back (well yesterday) from the Hannah M. movie, I LOVED IT! I went to the highest part of the cinema to dance! BEAUTIFUL SONGS
fear	tweets	misses my Mom today. She was my Best Friend and even though she has been gone several yrs I still miss her dearly. Happy Mother's Day
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
fear	tweets	Finally came around to shorten my Twitter username from @pascalfinette to @pfinette. If you follow me - no need to change anything.
fear	tweets	@Audiomonkee Because you're not exactly in those parts of Northern Emirates  It was 5.3 Richter I think.
fear	tweets	might still be eating and drinking then
love	tweets	Today is my first real mothers day with my son actually here  he wasn't born yet last year , can't wait to hug him when I get home
fear	tweets	Makes sense that greatfirewallofchina.org, a site to test whether a site is blocked in China, is blocked in China. Get that?  Any others?
love	tweets	I'm a bit late, but the new twitterific interface for the iPhone is very cool, oh and Richie and Lauren on their engagement
fear	tweets	Started following QueenRania for a change
love	tweets	i'm awake, too early for my liking on a sunday...but i'm looking at my pictures  last night was bloody awesome, there are no words...
sadness	tweets	@OhaiGabriella i hate it. it should just be english all day everyday
fear	tweets	Take antibacterial to school to clean your hands when you cant go the loos
love	tweets	@spiller2 @ann_donnelly  Cool, Thanks for re-tweeting it guys
love	tweets	xhausted after an amazing nite at the w.house corr.dinn--whatta nite!! zzz twitterland
love	tweets	Just spent the last two hours playing L4D with babe  Had HELLA fun. I love him &lt;3
love	tweets	Right! Into action! Grab a shower, grab my camera and, I think, a walk in the sunshine along the canal. Later, good tweeple
love	tweets	happy mother's day, mommy! hope you will have a good day
sadness	tweets	@AlanCarr Quaver Sandwiches  and tea.
love	tweets	There are wonderful people in my life who I think I can handle only in small doses  &amp; there is just 1 I cud be with every hour, everyday.
love	tweets	SUNNY DAY!  going down to Stonehenge with my parents...
love	tweets	@LittleMissHaya awekay kewl. thanx.
love	tweets	He's a mess. But iLove him
love	tweets	@Neekatron that sounds delicious
fear	tweets	I took a picture of me looking at my bottle of antibacterial. Wicked
love	tweets	man i just made a fat ass buger mmmmmmmmm  taste so fuckin delicious i love food, i eat my feelings lol
fear	tweets	@iRobC Well there's you, another Twiiter person...erm...difficult to say really...   Let's just say that you could fit all into a minibus!
fear	tweets	YES. and then they should in non test conditions!
love	tweets	@MariamUAE awesomeness
love	tweets	@empresstrena have a nice time, with plenty of dreams
fear	tweets	@hellosascha I'm currently into Emarosa. Their new album is the shiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit! Haha
love	tweets	@Jonasbrothers The episode was AMAZING...I cried when I saw the home videos they were soooooo cute
fear	tweets	@BrianMcnugget 167 Brian 167 that's 1...6....7 followers count them and weep. And they ALL know who is the buzz champion by now
fear	tweets	@justlonely we all have our moments of intense genius...and power...and well, at times, sheer insanity  i need a sanity check!
love	tweets	@alexwaddell I love Broughty Ferry
love	tweets	Oh p.s. Thank you so much for the flowers Mr.Akins your mamacita loves yoooou papa  Kevin is the best muuaah!
fear	tweets	Good Morning everybody and happy Mothers Day!!!!
love	tweets	Joel Mchale just made a Puyallup Fair reference on The Soup! I love this stuff. Snuggled in bed with my best girls
fear	tweets	@RichNeville well you scared me saying there may be rustling in the trees!  Happy Sunday to you sir
fear	tweets	thanks 2 become my friend,twitter..  selalu ada ruang untuk sahabat
fear	tweets	just got in from michaels and had some shreddies  im well tired, it was fun though ryan wright stoned = LOL
love	tweets	@BlokesLib lmao you witty wacko...loves it
sadness	tweets	@GabrielSaporta heard you slutted it up! I'm totally jealz~ I missed it. Maybe next time!
love	tweets	@OJthekid LOL yeah ima mama  thanks. happy mama's day and lakers day! i love it!
love	tweets	wishes Happy mother's day to all mothers!!!
fear	tweets	@arlocordova yes super lakas ng ulan. buti nalang i have a red bandana, body ko lang ang wet look  hahah!
sadness	tweets	Stop Everything! Are YOU extremely UNCOOL &amp; I don't know? IDENTIFY yourself NOW! Don't be shy let me know so I can UNfollow! Thank you!x
love	tweets	@freekdp we will support you
fear	tweets	@Fitoria how's the translation going?
love	tweets	My frist post... Off to find a new car for my parents, exciting!
fear	tweets	Just got back from a run &amp; I'm feeling grrrrrreeeeeaat!!!
fear	tweets	Beautiful sunshine when I woke up  but litterally 2 minutes later it starts to rain! I must be cursed.
love	tweets	says Happy Mother's Day to all the Moms out there.
fear	tweets	@vennsoh Oh good, this thing is viral now
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL MOTHERS OUT THERE!!!
love	tweets	@rushtoaugust @wonderchae @elyfont Happy mother's day to your moms.
love	tweets	So drunk!  Love u guys!
love	tweets	Peter, the bar owner is working his way up to 1000 beers-all Belgian. Has coffin for drinkers of Mort Subite
fear	tweets	@DaveyJam live live or leaked live? If it's live properly I may just role outta bed and download it
love	tweets	nothing is as lovely as rolling in after a long night with a boyfriend and a kitty
sadness	tweets	i believe only my black personality can explain how i feel... that boyfrann of mines gots me sprung
love	tweets	@yaeljk NKOTB world is the best place to be
fear	tweets	Spend a great time with family and friends. Thanks you guys
sadness	tweets	Really tired this sunday morning  xxx
fear	tweets	forgot the pin of my debit card. thank God the card still works after several attempts. just bought cake for sister's birthday. wheew!
love	tweets	@jlamshed Not had an offer like that for a while
fear	tweets	@iRobC It's a an MK mentality...I think
love	tweets	Our God is an awesome God, He is a God of 2nd,30th,100th chances..I give Him ALL the glory for my 2nd chance at 'love'.. Am still stunned
love	tweets	and Happy Mothers Day to All you Moms out there i hope you had a good day
love	tweets	@kellydollyrot aww... my mom will appreciate it   Much the same to your familias! When do you leave for tour?
fear	tweets	@Alicat13 Looks like both to me Alison.
fear	tweets	@pcsketch Oh dear, it will be late there.... good ol Michigan!  Well I look forward to chatting with you when our wakeful hours overlap.
love	tweets	@jacehall http://twitpic.com/4nbx4 - great photo! bravi! we are looking forward for the upcoming pilot in Italy too
love	tweets	@morrick I'm feeling much less alone now in my love for Fitzcarraldo, most people I mention it to have no idea what I am talking about.
fear	tweets	@turohaapamaki suck it up
love	tweets	lost HIATUS noooooooooooooooooo D: back to school tomorow. back in 10TY  (@NamastexD)
love	tweets	@twebbstack =O you need to ask him something? Lmao I love him too
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4ws8w - Look who I brought home
fear	tweets	is slowly crunching the reality that june is fast approaching. in other words, classes again, and another year will be added to my age.
fear	tweets	In shower and getting ready after I come out!  Going Christening!
love	tweets	@makikaysantos thanks love ) btw happy mother's day to your mom
love	tweets	@LiveJoy i love to read ur little quotes
love	tweets	Anyone else go train tripping on National Train Day?  http://tinyurl.com/p2l88x  Leave a comment of your adventures on the site.
love	tweets	I just realised how much i love sundays
love	tweets	is going to the Derny race with Sofie &amp; Cindy.... And i'll see Eric there !
love	tweets	@RWA88 Yay thanks  and awwh no you will feel grand soon  #TwitterTaleover
fear	tweets	@vonnvonn why thank you. Couldn't resist it
love	tweets	@ddlovato I missed u. Stop defending urself. Your true fans are with u  U're the best. And for me u didn't change. -Ur biggest french fan!
love	tweets	Loving Lego Indiana Jones. A game-researching aracheologist's dream
love	tweets	@nicole_honey thank you  i have a business exam tomorrow too :/
fear	tweets	@ilhongy if i can buy sleep for you, i will... that's what you need!
fear	tweets	back on the twit. much hw's to do... will post something interesting when i think of it
love	tweets	Hello all... wishing all mothers a very happy mother's day today.. &amp; everyday... &amp; Happy Tweeting...
fear	tweets	Robbie Wadge where are you? Does anyone know Robbie? Calling Robbie!
fear	tweets	Indo Girl in Thai Traditional Clothes being object for tourist at Wat Arun
love	tweets	Happy mothers day mom  ?
love	tweets	had nutella croissant+mango+melon+coffee and a lovely stalk of iris for breakfast in bed courtesy of N  Have the house to myself til noon
sadness	tweets	@emilyhall92 awww bless him  i am indeed coming, 68 days woooo! are you?
sadness	tweets	@shortword ah cool yeah i can see that . really handy thanks
sadness	tweets	Gatorade first thing in the morning = yumyum  feeling shattered but must arise and revise for IT tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	@Parsnipzilla ohtays, it all makes sense now... Cool
sadness	tweets	need to push diet to last level. Not too good last week lost 1 lb. . Better than a gain
fear	tweets	up odee early qot a call from some1 who I haven't heard from in a very lonq time
fear	tweets	Good morning Twitter!
fear	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO MY BEAUTIFUL MOMMIES
love	tweets	@CassieScerbo: 'Bring it on: In it to win it' is the BEST movie ever!!  U are the best actress, singer, dancer and role model ever&lt;33 xoxo
fear	tweets	@BrianMcnugget are you getting my messages or do you have to add me to recieve them, soz I'm new to this
love	tweets	happy mother's day mom. love you always
fear	tweets	@londicreations  I don't mind whistlers if they are actually whistling a tune, but those who just whistle nothing drive me crazy!
love	tweets	band recommended by Steph --&gt; PARAMORE! who else? a great band, consists of-&gt;Hayley Williams,Josh Farro,Zac Farro,Jeremy Davis  best band!
fear	tweets	got a prerecorded phone call from JJ asking to vote for ADMK led front, phone number is +914044621160, hyderabad connections
love	tweets	@paigeebaby  HAHAHAAH LAMO  thats so bad xDD i want my oneshot to go thurther hehe like ... BEDROOM xDD
love	tweets	ohi i would marry Travis Pastrana in a second... hes not that attractive, hes just the sweetest thing  and what he does is attractive ;)ha
love	tweets	happy mother's day
fear	tweets	@GabezRosales i'm still crossing my fingers for a fun group
sadness	tweets	@queetsss thanks babe. I guess I will find the right person one day, til then I'm better off alone
love	tweets	@ddlovato : yaaay,  you're back .FINALLY!!! i love reading your tweets ;D. and you ;P
fear	tweets	Finally getting to bed! Night tweeples
love	tweets	shecky95 @renatak  Happy Moms Day to u as well and many more to come
fear	tweets	@fletcherxx maxxie and anwar. ep 5? i think. i am up to that one next.
love	tweets	happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there
fear	tweets	@casual_intruder well said...please take him off my hands..i can't cope !!!! Set that fox on him
love	tweets	..but did i mention spending time with two bffs .. Totally worth it
love	tweets	@LondonW12 aww lovely pic
love	tweets	Making a mix! 22 minutes so far, aiming for 30 minutes  loving it so far!!!  DJ Sugarfree
love	tweets	Just had the best hot chocolate ever with chilli  On my way back to the UK now, I need my lovely bed....oh and a sunday roast mmmm.
fear	tweets	no food in fridge... time for grocery shopping... via internet!!  could get used to shopping like this.
love	tweets	left 'Naked' at @iarebinky on her little ass bed  even though my feet stll hurt my nite was made ;-)
sadness	tweets	Oh, and I'm obviously back on my stupid sleep schedule. Luckily church isn't until 2 tomorrow.
love	tweets	Happy Mothers day to all the Mom's on there!!
love	tweets	@yasminkol yea it looks good, the flower i mean.
love	tweets	lookin forward to a lovely meal out for grandparents 75th at posh italian
fear	tweets	start again... so now theres 6 people coming with us when we go to melbourne...for short stack. originally 4. but still only 3 for ss
fear	tweets	@kamathvasanth: wait till the vacation ends! u shud be cycling a lot then!
fear	tweets	Hey don't write yourself off yet. Little girl you're in the middle of the ride
fear	tweets	gonna go outside with my daddy... gonna take a ride with his new triumph!
fear	tweets	Listening to We Are Dead Ocean by @Draculatron. I actually listened twice in a row because it's so short and pleasing
love	tweets	Listening to Mendelssohn - Italian Symphony.  Lovely.
love	tweets	@amandabynes heey  your awsome. god bless.
fear	tweets	@pcsketch There is a motorcycle for sale down the road. Mind you it'd be stupid of me to get it. Summer 5 months away.
love	tweets	Yay Happy Mother's Day  #fb
love	tweets	@kaushal i am a bit more curious: how much did you pay for it?
fear	tweets	@Meshel_Laurie sorry to hear about a horrible weekend! It can only get better! Keep smiling.
love	tweets	@NinjaFanpire And the 1600th tweet goes to you because w/o you, I'd have no one to talk to at 3am in the morning! lol &lt;3
fear	tweets	@Hanster7705 yeah, it's tragic  i need a haircut
fear	tweets	I'm suffering from restless legs and butt syndrome.
love	tweets	im home!  Dinner with mum was delicious and nice  had a good time. Happy Mothers Day to all mums
love	tweets	omg! i luv u guys, thanks for keepin me entertained, and awake !  .... missinmydgbigtyme
fear	tweets	right, caffeine levels topped up, few more hours revision then #f1 time  'mon the jenson.
love	tweets	@mygirlhiro blogtv was fun! can't wait til next time
love	tweets	&quot;I can givee you anything but lovee&quot; - Daniel Schuhmacher
fear	tweets	@MariahCarey
love	tweets	@arjbarker I am so excited you're touring with FOTC! I had no idea!! I'll be seeing you tomorrow
sadness	tweets	I am the empitome of epic fail, just you know, more epic than fail.
love	tweets	had a good day driving up mountains, visiting katie, eating chips &amp; fudge and stocking up on lovely smelling soaps
love	tweets	@vene2ia Yvonne, thanks 4 the #FFrecommend! Lovely profile photo, you have! And I agree w/u on the &quot;what is sleep?&quot;  LOL! It's 5:46 am!
love	tweets	Saw the new Star Trek movie yesterday 'twas  very good. Having a quiet day today - off to the gym then for lunch
love	tweets	@mikealeonetti Thank you!
fear	tweets	home after spending a day catching up with my old pals
fear	tweets	@Scarfresh i want u to know i don't like u hun  j/p u know we go back
fear	tweets	@Dina_Vinson no need to worry. I'll be by your side
fear	tweets	@Meech13 oh i love sunday mornings like this - mum just made scrambled eggs on toast
fear	tweets	Getting my shit together then leaving work and going to bed
fear	tweets	has plopped TWICE! TWICE!  http://plurk.com/p/svs0y
fear	tweets	@alexa_chung oh get well soon Alexa, take some rest
fear	tweets	Orange vitamin water 10 is my new addiction  U should try it.
sadness	tweets	just had the most emo moment too many tears love my family and sorors
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day.....................I had a gr8 day with my kids &amp; my MUM
love	tweets	Basically I've listened to Miley Cyrus for fourteen hours now, and I love it.
love	tweets	Love &quot;good girls go bad&quot;
love	tweets	it's good to see all my family  was a good day today
love	tweets	hi to all twit friends  happy mother's day to all the beautiful and amazing mothers out there
fear	tweets	just chilling out in my room on the computer
love	tweets	@CocoFontana I'll have to watch it soon then!  An I love, New York? Sweet! I'll be on the lookout for that.
love	tweets	@MandyBookLover Yes so did I  Some of the Acts are really very cringe worthy! Though I do find it very entertaining.
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
fear	tweets	Sunrise by Blvd East is awesome. Now to get some sleep. YAY!!
love	tweets	@Franner_tastic Awww that is sweet
fear	tweets	Great day. And another one awaits
fear	tweets	...and a big bag to take up as well as a rain coat. This is the bad part about having to places to live  Twitter Later  xxx
fear	tweets	@monabarry Ohhhh! Ok! thought that I was going nuts!! Maybe they will pass through here on the way back!
fear	tweets	@MrTomHill Thank a yoou  how are you? #TwitterTakeover
sadness	tweets	@V_KONG Record Grand Prix to skip through later, watch Man U game, Radio 1 .... well sport comes first
love	tweets	@Mrsdaughtry Happy Mothers Day!
love	tweets	@BlokesLib lol trying to take after her old man eh? Good for her! hehehe very cute!
sadness	tweets	@Nicsey Snap! I know that feeling well
fear	tweets	spending more money on trademe, hope i got a bargain
love	tweets	@hl2run Anyone with big fingers  But I've loved it...
fear	tweets	@jonathanlerwill do you want to do my laundry as well?
love	tweets	Just Chilling after MCFLY last night! ABSOULUTELY INCREDIBLE! =D i love them!
love	tweets	@SongBuildersUK wow is a good idea... but the b-day was yesterday and I already took him a present! Thank you anyway!!!
love	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
love	tweets	@pntbtrkisses LMAO...but you'll still have me! I am thoroughly enjoying our conversation
love	tweets	I'm really full. Had a HUGE breakfast.
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wsst - one of my models from a photo shoot.  stacey
fear	tweets	@squaringkarma thanks
love	tweets	@MariahCarey I'd say it a million plus plus plus times !!! I love you and appreciate you I'd choose your happieness over album any day
fear	tweets	Remmber time crisis ? Try it on the #iPhone
love	tweets	@rachelongkili a walk in the clouds; sweet november; lake house.
love	tweets	@AmazingPhil How BOut What Your Doing Now, or what you gonna do today  lol
fear	tweets	mothers day today      school tomorrow and a full week of National Testing
love	tweets	really want to see JB3D.. cant wait for thursday
love	tweets	I love how simple my Safari toolbar is!  http://twitpic.com/4wssc/full
fear	tweets	@gabexmosh &quot;with done&quot;?
fear	tweets	Njoying sunday @netrockers plce and learning abt more in joomla
love	tweets	@PerezHilton you look smashing darling  is trent reznor really getting married i just want to rip out mariqueen's fake boob's -_-
love	tweets	Happy Mommy's Day to all the mothers in the world!
love	tweets	@kymdotcom in anticipation of him making me a cup of tea, I'm agreeing. Now it must happen!  No, he is awesome.
fear	tweets	@F1TailPipe_com Thanks
fear	tweets	@lewisking don't you procrastinate!   (like I do...)
fear	tweets	@gfalcone601 dont you think this tour went fast? i do
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers...time for me to hit the hay! much love my tweeps!
fear	tweets	@LLC1983 Thanks
fear	tweets	iono...I guess I'm getting off now. L8r twits
fear	tweets	@jbaldwin Perfect. Thank you. Enjoy your sunday of no work
love	tweets	like your first broadcast @supitsemily
fear	tweets	@kazzababe95 cut yourself a slice of cheese cake.. it makes everything better
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day to all the mommy's out there!
love	tweets	The sun is attempting to increase her efforts. Alas the same cannot be said for me. I see a bath, a couch &amp; a book in my immediate future
love	tweets	Awesome beer pong party at my house in the yard tonight  going in when the sun is rising is officially B.A.
love	tweets	@rbtlshow really enjoyed the podcast with @jasonsantamaria This was my 1st time listenening to the show. Will def listen from now on
fear	tweets	Good night all... Just set this twitter thing up. I'm very new at this, but I expect it to come in handy.
love	tweets	Kyneton for breakfast this morning at Slow Living. Noice. Such a beautiful sunny autumn day  Drove back to Melb via Daylesford
sadness	tweets	Hot showers make everything better  all i need is sumbody to tuck me in. . ugh miss my gramma
fear	tweets	On another note, geoDefense Easy down. Onwards to the medium maps, where a whole other world of pain awaits my exploration!
fear	tweets	hoping to hear from you all soon
love	tweets	aww @skyelikeupthere you loooove me
love	tweets	I love my mom we are going to greece this summer
love	tweets	2 dates to go and i'm done booking this first tour  anyone wanna help me find shows in and around NYC? June 2 and June 4?   Thanks!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day @shannon180
sadness	tweets	Went shopping for sports tour yesterday with Garley... very very very funny!! Now I need some brunch  And a shower.
fear	tweets	@Peddlee Haha... How could u? dun eat properly rt? see lar~ Go take medicine
fear	tweets	@mellalicious fey slays it in #30rock but title of that film sounds bad  #Inbruges is a funny indie little euro city hitman gone bad tale!
fear	tweets	@Elliecopter_ rofl im glad! haha yeah me tew! but usually i get up at the same time and just spend more time on twitter! tehehe!
love	tweets	@elijahr26 Hey thanks for following  Love the name Elijah thats what im going to name my Son
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wsy6 - Beauty.  Going out now!
love	tweets	Exchange story gone, yaaaay! On with Sweet Charity
love	tweets	had a nice brunch by the bay.. Thank God for Mommies!
sadness	tweets	simple greetings from unexpected people can actually lighten our mood, doesn't it ever happen to you?
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all Mothers out there
fear	tweets	still up, JUST GOT HOME.  ready to go to sleep..
love	tweets	going to eat some pasta bake, my favourite food! later going to the flea market @jadirox you're my lilime
fear	tweets	@josepicardo Ahh okay makes sense to start the preparations now then
fear	tweets	I'm not! They frighten me to death............I just like to see all the boys in their leathers!  ;) We go every year. Brilliant atmos!
fear	tweets	@SaliWho morrissey will cure you  I am jealous. but not in a slash your tyres way just in a hope you enjoy it wish I cuold go way
sadness	tweets	Has finally found her new flat.
love	tweets	@amyserrata in the sun and changing my default icon just for you  what're your plans?
love	tweets	@pinkbunny69 o i c. i have no excuses i just love bein comfy
love	tweets	Went on a short flight around the Geelong waterfront.  Surprised at how well I handled it, as I'm still exhausted from last weeks meetup
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day. Havent got mom a present yet? Print off an Amazon Gift Card for her!  http://snipurl.com/hq0n1
sadness	tweets	nothings really going *well*...however currently theres nothing else to look forward to so may aswel make the best of it
sadness	tweets	@ezrabutler - they have their headaches the morning after, instead!
love	tweets	@lorilooker oii oiii  hope the run goes/went well (whenever you get this message!) love youuuuu ?
love	tweets	@xXFriendXx That is amazing she will be happy with it enjoy your sunday  XX
love	tweets	marko got in a fight outside the roseland tonight.. it was rather entertaining!
fear	tweets	Here's a brief preview: http://bit.ly/eHCfP   OMG James is creepy in that role! I'm scared of him
sadness	tweets	even when we're miles and miles apart; you're still holding all of my heart    4 days until jonas brothers 3d concert experience w/candice
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day Mommies
love	tweets	@MariahCarey u go Mariah,never listen to the haters  I have been a fan for so long and am so grateful for ur music. Can't wait 4 the album
fear	tweets	@zuzu I didn't get a lot of sleep myself last night. And it is a good thing, reading
fear	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wsue - yeah  well thanks *blushes*
love	tweets	@DebbieFletcher Nice Mothersday! *gives you a viritual chocolate
fear	tweets	I feel rather cheery, despite being stuck indoors all day revising
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	Loves random acts of kindness and laughter
sadness	tweets	2 days after #all4web ...i'm still tired
fear	tweets	happy birthday great-grandmother  ../././. bad news on a good day &gt;&lt; but ame is living
fear	tweets	Feeling the effects of the party last night. Drank far too much. 2 chicken burgers and one lamb burger. I did dance a fair bit tho.
love	tweets	I will surely vote for @AllisonOfficial.
fear	tweets	I loveeee NY! Getting breakfast then gonna go mimis I'm sooo tiredddd! missing him ODeeee! Love you
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day !!!! Show some love to your Beautiful and Amazing Mom!!  &lt;3
fear	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
love	tweets	@melissagreen http://twitpic.com/4wsk3 - too cute
fear	tweets	@inesthefreak - Wtf Polyvore? what's that?  enjoy it though.
love	tweets	@stephaniepratt I Love This Song lol, You're amazing Steph , xoxo
sadness	tweets	@MiaLotta why do u feel shit? Nerves? I tripped over that plastic telescope at 6:40 am yesty, I fell into the wall my head still hurts
fear	tweets	@McFlyingGirl omg i had that book its soo funny
love	tweets	I am sooooo happy! Finally, Kean Cipriano replied to my chat messages. I hope he's not fake.
sadness	tweets	Forgive me good lord for this time I /knew/ wat am I doing.. Except the mighty oracle just didn't *&amp;@#ing care to fully support UnixODBC.
love	tweets	is wishing all of the mother's out there a very Happy Mother's Day!! Love ya!
love	tweets	@BurT_E  It's an honour being your friend!!!! http://bit.ly/LhgZ2
fear	tweets	@Santbrink boffert
love	tweets	@davidarchie needs to make plans to come back to uk! yest he made my year  love him xo
love	tweets	happy momma day to myself and all my other beautiful moms out there!cant wait to get pampered tomorrow
fear	tweets	Listening to have heart. Aka i took over carlys last.fm      its 4am need to be up in 4 hours.  Looooong day tomorrow
fear	tweets	a pink balloon for mum on her day
fear	tweets	Hey Stu did you see the cool 'family' picture on Jess' facebook?  Soo good to see You All
sadness	tweets	Today I'm lonley girl with a guitar
love	tweets	YES! getting my sky + back on wednesday  been waiting weeks for it (:
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL MOTHERS!
fear	tweets	sandwichesss, then work
love	tweets	wow the weather is amazing today!
fear	tweets	Training #Stud-Life: A fost Tiberiu Lovin la noi. Am aflat ca sunt imbecili peste tot. FUN
fear	tweets	Hats off to a slightly unexpected yet very successful end to a grouling day!!! Night all
love	tweets	auntiegail says 'Today I am picking up the hi-vis vests for the kids they say 'Auntie Gails Childminding Service'  xxx.'
fear	tweets	@damohopo I didn't headbutt anyone! Not that I know about anyway! ;) You ok today?  Football today?
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the Mom's out there, but especially to my wonderfuly Mommy
love	tweets	happy maders day
fear	tweets	i thought spock's vulcan sign looked a bit weird - turns out zachary quinto couldn't do it so he had his hands glued. but he's still hot
fear	tweets	@zoziekins ACSM. it's unfathomable.  i think the other one .. and the .. is one that should be kept to the comfort of our bedrooms. yes?
love	tweets	@MCsavedmylife thank you, your dedication as a lamb is unparalleled also, all true lambs dedication is unparalleled
love	tweets	@MacQuid We travelled the world &amp; I grew up on a diet of everything you can think of! Still, my Genoese grandma made her own pasta....
love	tweets	Digging a downloaded film with mi familia. We love iTunes
fear	tweets	@tommcfly but it all went too quick and there wasn't a chance lol
fear	tweets	Yang4 - finally got it  Chinese is hard when every other kid has a Zhonguoren adult at home! We're all foreign devils here ;)
sadness	tweets	@sassij Or he's gonna chop you up into tiny bits - one of the two
love	tweets	@JasonBradbury What brings you to our fair Island today?
love	tweets	@joshboulton  I should be doing history.....
love	tweets	your the voice i hear inside my head, the reason that i'm singing, i gotta find you, i need to find you
love	tweets	@fredrikth Hi, there you are! Rise and shine. Yes, I did. Pretty early for the last nights hours  But I slept like a baby though ...
fear	tweets	Just got back from AC. Why am I not freaking out of the midyr exam ? :o HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY, MUMMY
love	tweets	Mom ur the greatest.. HMD
fear	tweets	Woke up at 5am. Cleaned camera gear from last nights wedding. Should really go back to sleep, but kids awake.
love	tweets	@unahealy Brent Cross? wow! I live very close from there!
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day!!
love	tweets	@dashkaaa we always miss each other, don't we?
love	tweets	14 dayssss ahhhh super excited   'they're telling me that my heart wont beat again'   JLS were awesome yesterday (:
love	tweets	has just watched antcam7 ahh love it
fear	tweets	@TheSimsHub Really? Hooray! Can't wait!
fear	tweets	G*morning! Rain, rain and more rain.. ! But I don't care so much
fear	tweets	@NursingDrPepper I told you I'd be back  Just won't be updating as much before my exams. Looking forward to a day or two in your house ;)
fear	tweets	oh thats hard-going. I'm writing a book at the moment so am motivating myself to press on with that.
love	tweets	@RX2904 you, my friend, are a true fan
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all your wonderful moms!
fear	tweets	@MacQuid Soetimes I envy those who have spent their whole lives in one place and have deep roots... the grass on the other side syndrome!
love	tweets	is waiting for the final of shipwrecked to start. goodtimes.  &lt;3
fear	tweets	Sippin on the goose &amp; bull all night has got me twisted lol...on my way home from Club Wet. Interesting night
love	tweets	All the money in the world could never make me as happy as being a stay-at-home mom with my son
love	tweets	Is sat in her PJs drinking tea and watching the Politics Show. Lovely
sadness	tweets	@Malarkey ok point taken.  I'll tell my team to stop our cynical championing of standards. Active-X is far better anyway
sadness	tweets	unfortunately people at work let me down so I am now having a bad morning! it's official... but revenge is a dish best served cold
love	tweets	@AFineFrenzy ali, just like you do!!!   have such a wonderful sunday!
fear	tweets	Has got to go to work with a slight hangover gd nite thou
love	tweets	@georgieBOOM it's like triple what i've got, so it's a lot to me as well. Well done
fear	tweets	@sandy195850 That's me set up for an exciting Sunday lol
love	tweets	@phillyhead aw thank you sam phil, i love you
love	tweets	@phoeNYkx Yes, I liked it very very much  It wasn't even cheesy!
fear	tweets	Just downloaded parnoid
love	tweets	@theclimbx3 i knooow  its the pizza girl episode xD &lt;3
sadness	tweets	Just came home from my sister where I spent the night
fear	tweets	@madnessofmany called about it, no answer shall try again tomorrow
fear	tweets	@TMJP actually i would prefer you not check me out .....
fear	tweets	@vadimkozhin why do you think so?
love	tweets	@ddlovato http://twitpic.com/4vuuy - That's so cool.
fear	tweets	I wonder what you're doing, imagining where you are, there's oceans in between us, but that's not very far.  http://plurk.com/p/svxe1
love	tweets	@MARCOME I like the sound of a love breeze...sounds beautiful! Love the wind on my face
fear	tweets	happy birthday to my little sister gee! in celebration, have an article
love	tweets	Hope all the Mum's out there had a Mother's Day with love, close family &amp; friends.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day !  I feel blessed on this day to have wonderful son who is also my best friend
love	tweets	@TotallyM hi hun!!  i really loved your tutorial yday!  soooo much, it was one of the best tutorials i had watched in a long time!  xx
love	tweets	just got home and my kitty was by my door waiting for me
love	tweets	@frenchiep :  i know i*m late but i didn't had internet. so happy bithday to you and pierre!
love	tweets	@maenad_au I love it
fear	tweets	@ronnilab Hahahah, I will be using that saying from now on!
love	tweets	@AmmoxXx great day? Woman, did you NOTICE the smile that never disappeared off my face? Ha, Murray... All cos of you, I owe you
sadness	tweets	@simbaaa @mahimaaa SORRY! I couldn't help it. 'Twas to try and get if on the trending topics.
love	tweets	Sleeeping ; just had to say Happy Momdukes Day
love	tweets	@backstreetboys Congrats to Howie! I hope you bring little James to germany soon  Wish you all the best for your family!
love	tweets	@MollySchofe on another note I totally love this pic of you and your dad....old pic -  http://bit.ly/18aEG8
love	tweets	It's like I'm living in a Dream Land. I (always) get what I want. God, thank you for everything. I'm so grateful for this lovely life
love	tweets	@Katie_McFlyy FINALY MY CHANCE HAS CAME. . TO KILL YOU MWAHAHA! ha. not cool. .  ha  xx
fear	tweets	Oh. Now it doesn't need updating all of a sudden. Ok. Will get dressed anyway
love	tweets	@Dannymcfly http://twitpic.com/3ernb - Loving The Jumper
fear	tweets	@twilightgossip I hope you feel better soon
sadness	tweets	@courtpet oh sweet! I'll definitely check it out when I get the chance...
fear	tweets	just as i finish checking all my emails, i get 5 more. because like 5 more people are following me on twitter. hi people following me!
love	tweets	HAPPY B-DAY TO LINA  haha, your birthdaypresent to me would be to comment on the new video ;) http://bit.ly/17Cy61
love	tweets	@Magnum74 I knew my mom loved flowers and she loves the Rieger Begonia so... hanging basket seemed perfect
fear	tweets	Cleaning up from yesterdays wild party
sadness	tweets	if you hit a car .. u should leave a note http://bit.ly/P274B  but yea put whatever u want on the note
love	tweets	LOVED Britain's got talent last night!  Shaun and Greg were both amazing!  Were they HOT too..can't say I noticed?!!
sadness	tweets	Rove Live in 3 mins, kinda excited.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day VALK!!
love	tweets	@Hermanryu Thank you! Tadi jam 12.30pm
love	tweets	@tprettyman ask them what they have done with their lives. be annoying human beings? tell your mama happy mother's day!
love	tweets	Good mornin' everyone . Beautiful sunday for all the beautiful moms of ours. Had my breakfast with the lady ....   Lets move on .
fear	tweets	I guess she's not the type of songwriter who dreams the great ones.
love	tweets	With Aubrey at pearl!!!
love	tweets	LA bound!!
love	tweets	So grateful for my amazing family. How blessed am I. Happy Mothers day everyone
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day. Havent got mom a present yet? Print off an Amazon Gift Card for her!  http://snipurl.com/hq0n1
sadness	tweets	@iamhenrymorgan my screen is covered with BLUR ...  how's ya day been kiddo ?
fear	tweets	@sleepynikki - I will see if there's a used organ shop there &amp; let you know. But why not just sign up to ejamming.com and rock out!
sadness	tweets	shower time
love	tweets	@MelodyLeaLamb Goooood Morning Melody! Wishing you a Wonderful Mother's Day with your family!
love	tweets	I saw Thirst which is korean movie made by chan-wook Park . this movie isn't hard but good
fear	tweets	Show 147 in pre-pre production ....... a bit behind
love	tweets	you always seem to know exactly the right thing to say. thanks.  - http://ilikeucoz.com/m/1123 #youregreat
love	tweets	Happy Sunday. We have sunshine in Frankfurt. Hope all mothers enjoy this day
fear	tweets	did 14.5 miles in the Peak last night, with a nice 5 mile run back to the car this morning
fear	tweets	My bet on Mumbai Indians today... Anyone to take a bet on this for 500 bucks??
fear	tweets	@JPMizDELiCiOUS  hii
fear	tweets	has now been informed by a close personal friend that the sore head is due to infact 4 pints not 2
love	tweets	@DemiLSupporter i LOVE your hat! so cool. that looks like it was a fun day.  and i love that you used the word &quot;crikey&quot; just now!!
love	tweets	HAPPY MOMMA's DAY ALL. HONOR YOUR MOMs  sign up for #maternalhealth  here's for all mothers and luvin kids out there:  http://bit.ly/Bpekk
fear	tweets	@codepo8 I must admit when i first saw that name posted i thought it was an exploit attempt
fear	tweets	sorry i havent tweeted in a while- i was on holiday then was ill but im better now
fear	tweets	@TheRealJayRome heya thanks for accepting the add
love	tweets	It's Mother's Day! Went out to lunch to celebrate and then went shopping for a gift for my mom
love	tweets	star treeeeek?! only one hot guy there  and i get to watch him do his hot stuff woo.
love	tweets	bathing with two little angels, Keyla and Janice.
love	tweets	@Kenzielee_ Mother's Day in the U.S today. I won't tell mine, she'll expect another present
fear	tweets	@jonoble Hope you'll be able to join us for future editions
fear	tweets	just watched One Tree Hill episode 22 season 6... never cried this much since keith died!!!!!! OTH is epic for sure!!!!!!  Xxx
love	tweets	@davelakhani Did you get to meet Ace Frehley?  Love his guitar playing.  Not sure how coherent a speaker he might/might not be.
fear	tweets	did it!!  back in pakistan! - http://bkite.com/07kBQ
fear	tweets	@jonesyladdd SAME. its just not happening, and im going out too!. UH-OH.
fear	tweets	That's more like it - 3rd  #fb
fear	tweets	2 more weeks of school not including weekends. omg right on. im so excited yet scared. omg. ahhhh. i can't wait to grad.
love	tweets	Had a great weekend... but ate too much I think..  I am looking forward to my trip to Hobart on Friday the 15th....
love	tweets	@RealHughJackman Wolverine is awesome.. love it! your such a great actor..
fear	tweets	Happy mothers day Mummy  ?
fear	tweets	... I will launch (make or break) the alpha phase of my residential real estate rental website. (Commitment of first grade
love	tweets	@marypascoe thanks  i love the word CRIKEY it's like my sayin'
love	tweets	happy mothers day!
love	tweets	@CirkusMike tweetie is very good for multiple accounts too. Grab the Mac Desktop copy too if you have one
love	tweets	Happy mother's day to all of the moms out there! Don't forget to send a card!!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day
fear	tweets	@doctorbond if you meant to heavy rain n flood in bkk last night, lucky I was out of bkk
love	tweets	@nicktionary and its amazing  x
love	tweets	@NeNe96 happy bday to her  and happy mothers' day too
fear	tweets	@28doomdoom28 I saw that on jonas too  But where is that line from cos I've heard of it my I can't remember where?
fear	tweets	@sandy195850 we have two small dogs, good to hear that Center Parcs wd take them. Cruising to New York on the Queen Mary 2, real treat
fear	tweets	@originalgabriel Sure thing!
love	tweets	@ModelSupplies thank you for your comment
love	tweets	Currently in costa coffee  im liking this place more and more. Were sat in the business lounge. ooo were businessy today.
fear	tweets	Photo: My New Shoes!  http://tumblr.com/xmx1qzcts
love	tweets	@melisadisti lol i hope i find someone to give me one too! lol
fear	tweets	@drewryanscott then u should went to vegas like u did last year  I think this was around the time u killed that animal with ur old car LOL
love	tweets	happy mom's day
love	tweets	@gh_rocks Aww how sweet you are
fear	tweets	Guys will go see Constance logically
fear	tweets	@MacQuid No! Strange, each time we return I feel like I have come home and yet I have no Spanish blood that I know of....
love	tweets	happy mothers day  esp to my mommy
love	tweets	@CimmiCSYMSOffic i think i'll pass the worm! haha, but good morning!
love	tweets	@jaded0ll HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO UR MOM JAH. TC.
fear	tweets	@hunz i tend to freak most people out - I am, err, somewhat mad.
fear	tweets	I'm in need of someone with a good gaydar ... Seriously
love	tweets	@RobPattinson444 hello  i am ur biggest fan, and i rly carnt w8 till new moon comes out! good luck 2 u nd all the cast filming  xxx
fear	tweets	@MollyMaison moooooooooooooooo? lol i copied that last.fm thing you had  looks good
love	tweets	@MrCrunchiebar  love the new pic! Isn't the sunny sky nice!
sadness	tweets	@ElizaPatricia Never met you in person but miss you like hell. That must be your charm...
love	tweets	@drewryanscott Awww that's so sweet  Wish you could see yourz 2
sadness	tweets	Basil will be the highlight of my day. I've just had an old man lecture me on the greatness of the Telegraph. What an idiot
love	tweets	@youngnatho LOL.  **BLows Kiss** did u Catch it daddY ??.. neways im chillin hun and u i see u up early have u been a sleep
love	tweets	actually loves nesquik cereal
love	tweets	its so nice.. I LUV KELLY...she's such an amazing singer  LUV HER
fear	tweets	Going to bed...I love the weekends
love	tweets	@nicolejacinto Ahh, your baby is so cute! Happy Mother's Day!
love	tweets	@verflucht Thanks
fear	tweets	kids  b'day party/picnic  in canazarro park.  The other half 'hurts' today
love	tweets	happy mother's day!!!     gr8 day
love	tweets	Im LOVING the #Squarespace Tutorial Videos, real helpful
fear	tweets	@tsarnick Oh, yeah.. I'm aiming for a 160 on the scorecard today man!  I'm gonna be in vicious mental/physical pain in a few hours...
fear	tweets	Mothers day isnt until the 31th here in sweden.But thnx for the pm's
fear	tweets	@Fooddesigner good luck in the pressure test! don't worry everything will be great
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day, Moms!!! You are wonderful!! Have a great day
fear	tweets	Spent the night finally relaxing with Nogard on WoW after finishing some work Needed to take a small break from art. I really missed this
fear	tweets	is looking at that person from a very different pov.  never thought i'd see this day arrive!
fear	tweets	@freshypanda I work with drunk golfers, it can be exciting! It wasn't bad  Yours, sir?
sadness	tweets	my back and legs kill from yesterday and we have a big old leak in the kitchen, looks like staying in pjs all day infront of the tv
love	tweets	Had a lovely Mothers Day
love	tweets	Goin to ma cousins soon, there dog is soo cute
love	tweets	While the family is out to Mother's Day Party, Shannon &amp; I took a stroll downstairs with the pram. She's bathed and happy. Me too.
love	tweets	You want ittt, you got ittt!
love	tweets	@dannywood we standing here meeting up with everbody!!!! Let us kno u kno where here! Love ya!
love	tweets	Happy mothers dat
love	tweets	like the sound of a tweet
love	tweets	@robertkazinsky so you should. You're a fantastic actor it's about time you got some recognition for it.
love	tweets	@Wattyz You got it! YAAAY!!! I was really worried your phone wouldn't fit, so glad it does!  Happy Mother's Day, lol!
love	tweets	i'm seriously lovin 'hometown glory' by adele. about to hop on itunes and snag it
love	tweets	Happy mother's day to all moms out there!  i just played tong-its a while ago.
fear	tweets	trying to NOT fall asleep while doing ancient assignment. Drinking some water with ice and lime! yum
love	tweets	received her first pressie. Happy happy.
fear	tweets	Fishing on WoW while listening to ska on Pandora. Such a lazy Sunday morning
love	tweets	@christinaof94 Lol  It's like you have a cult.. haha
fear	tweets	@smilyross Do tell...
fear	tweets	@damana Was he big and strong - and would he like a pedometer?
love	tweets	@Lady_Twitster ohhhh, I love Morse, have every episode on video &amp; sometimes gaze lovingly at them
love	tweets	I have such fantastic friends, including several ones met through here! thanks for being in my life - you are such amazing people!
love	tweets	@fjkeogh Ha Thats good. Thats why I love my boys, cos they never stir up the hatred that the mighty red scum do  Everyone loves City
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all the beautful mums.
fear	tweets	Is ahhh, ching chong wing wong ping pong ding dong!
fear	tweets	@errolbeats - no, @hamsterfurrey is buttfuck stupid. I'm just silly and forgetful
fear	tweets	Happy mother's day all you moms!
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER'S DAYYY!
love	tweets	winter flu has to twitter about logies to get noticed. haha. I love rove
fear	tweets	maybe going to see the hannah montana movie todaaaay  i've seen it one time before, but can't wait to see it again!!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all you moms out there
love	tweets	finished english. very happy. watching rove and talking to one of my fav girls tyla. i love you
love	tweets	Happy mother's day everyone! still playing pet society!
love	tweets	has had a wonderful day with some gorgeous girls, followed by dinner and drinks with the Swedes
love	tweets	@blundell07 Aye, I loved it too  @cyntaxerror over analyzed it me thinks
love	tweets	@Laryllan not really ;D nice pic . @lenaaileen no but could u imagine those 2? ... i thought so
love	tweets	you are my apple and i wana take a bite
love	tweets	@MsFantastic776 goodmorning&amp; Happymothers day
fear	tweets	At my parents, net is good  Enjoyin myself too.
love	tweets	@BaltarStar Hee! He looks totally drug addled and handsome.  Glad you found a clip you could view.
love	tweets	Great to be sunbathing in my garden.  And this afternoon I'll be watching ADO to see if they can win this important match (on tv).
sadness	tweets	@nigs Ah so 15 months. I'm sure he is advanced, and it's not you being biased  they seem to grow up faster these days - now I sound old!
love	tweets	Glorious sunny day in London town.. I'm in drama school fighting people with swords while protecting my romantically structured face
fear	tweets	@daniellebabeyy babe  ive been aight, urselff?
fear	tweets	oh no its ok  they are coming on just now x]
love	tweets	loves the smell of roast in the oven - thanks @sharnazzle for the ideas!
love	tweets	Hopes every1 had a nice mothers day!
love	tweets	i love you more than you'll ever know.
love	tweets	OK. break over. Back to the books. Have fun lovelies!  ? http://blip.fm/~5z8da
sadness	tweets	@scouserach Not today Rach
fear	tweets	@TradingGoddess &quot;Perfect Practice makes Perfect&quot;
love	tweets	welcome to all new catvampees, enjoy the ride
sadness	tweets	OOPS I meant 9412tr sorry lol
love	tweets	We are having a day 'at home' today - which is proving to be rather lovely
sadness	tweets	Round and Round the Garden: The amazing thing is that he's still talking to me!  http://tinyurl.com/dx8as4
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mamas out there
love	tweets	Awesome sunday service  God is for you, Jesus is praying for you - What can man do to you?!
love	tweets	@sh4rkship thanks for the follow
love	tweets	@asmita it is very cheeky one, but nice too
love	tweets	@Mariment @macangel @VisionaryEyes Thanks so much!
fear	tweets	@nezorousylex hey!  not much, you?
sadness	tweets	@michaelmagical Oh its dinner time here. still sulking over missing your fillet min   *sob* so having tea &amp; toast
love	tweets	@nickmovs omg!! I'm tweeting sooo late sorry I miss u 2 good times ...NO I didn't marry him still great friends
fear	tweets	I don't think our ISP is too happy with us this weekend!
love	tweets	http://snipurl.com/hq0n1 Just printed my mom an Amazon gift card  for Happy Mothers Day talk about last minute.
love	tweets	my darling dd says &quot;my mum is my best friend&quot;... and she told me to tell you all she said that in here too  so I did! love ya moo (jd too)
love	tweets	@ciaag3nt thats great  (((hugs)))
love	tweets	Happy mothers day! Be good to your momma's!
love	tweets	off to do some gardening and get lots of fresh air - i love Sundays
love	tweets	speakerphone with the bestie  love that kid http://tinyurl.com/qxyc2n
love	tweets	greeting again every momma : Happy Momma's Day!
sadness	tweets	@sassyback you were right about karla not the best movie made
fear	tweets	@Kekic Lmao i know !! pleaseeee reply  You got any replies yet? :L x
sadness	tweets	Enough already about Wolfram Alpha: The Next Google, Or the Next Cuil? http://bit.ly/6HESZ
sadness	tweets	@leeye yep trying to beat the cold winter. Morning swim is always refreshing~ good start of day
love	tweets	@ClaytonMorris Thank You Clayton. Going to my favorite Greek Resturant after church for mom's Day!!!!  Loved you on Huckabee
love	tweets	My mom was happy with my present  yayy
fear	tweets	ssshhh everybody, I think @dagadong is asleep... don't disturb him.
fear	tweets	im at scotts being a fatty
sadness	tweets	Finally going to bed after staying up reading the script for &quot;Remember Me.&quot; So sad but sooo good! Happy Mother's Day to all the Mother's!
love	tweets	@ash_786 It's no secret I'm an apple boy! Have considered the iphone dark side MANY times
sadness	tweets	@codelust @prolificd caught me at lunch today... you were correct of he stalking me
love	tweets	is having a loungey sunday
love	tweets	@samjmoody @DebbieFletcher Happy Mothers day!! Xx
sadness	tweets	Dans public transport again and have decided it's just everything north of London that's utter crap these southern trains are alright
love	tweets	@madilovesmerder yeahh. i loved it how addie was being supportive  and in s3 epi4 when addie was like to Der &quot;dont hurt her again&quot;..
love	tweets	HAPPY MOTHER DAY FOR ALL THE STRONG HARD WORKING MOTHERS, MAY GOD BLESS YOU AND YOUR FAMILY
love	tweets	@JoelMadden People from England can watch this one  Thankyou
love	tweets	im an avid fan of playboy magazine and i love your magazines
love	tweets	@mzfuller8, @mynervouscharm, @littlebirds, @sonsah, i hope you all have a happy mothers day!
fear	tweets	@carrotmadman6 @sjdvda @Morinn The folks at MBB are no  longer reviewing blogs? Long time I have read a new blog review.
love	tweets	@makikaysantos http://bit.ly/izhdy  here looove.
love	tweets	@BenWay08 mmm but nothing i can do. lucky ive got great friends like u to cheer me up
fear	tweets	13 hours til i'm on a plane. Ahhh yay
sadness	tweets	Last night, bad guys tried to enter in my garden . I was alone and I really got scared. Now, i feel really stupid. NOT FUNNY
fear	tweets	@reivad so's the smell of cigarettes and alcohol... at least *i * like it.
sadness	tweets	@dangerjoe hey Mr Danger!!!
fear	tweets	@JamesHancox i don't know why but, i can only find miss matched socks during winter. i mean, where do they all go?
love	tweets	GM Tweeters! Happy Mother's Day to the mothers and pretend mothers out there!
love	tweets	happppppyyyy mothersdayyyyyyyyy  mummy you are the best
fear	tweets	9 hours and 10 mins until I can go home and sleep  I hour till I have to go to work :| can't wait for 5 days off this week!
fear	tweets	@mutantsounds i was think of something with a better view, but i am on a tight budget.
fear	tweets	@MissxMarisa Yeah, I think you're hyper enough girly.
fear	tweets	@Yoga_fan Been busy trumping your cheese omlette with a cheese and chili omlette. An omnomlette
sadness	tweets	Happy mothers day to those of u that are mothers, and happy mothers day to all of your mothers      I miss my mom....
fear	tweets	but I keep updating.
love	tweets	@LisaHopeCyrus I know, she's great!  The Climb is sooo good!
love	tweets	Love sundays. Especially when F1 is on!! Still in PJ's, no plans to get out of them any time soon
fear	tweets	@TwistedHelen i emailed you back baby   how goes???
love	tweets	http://twitpic.com/4wuko - This is 'Teddy Bear', we might be getting him - isn't he so cute
fear	tweets	Going to Hong Kong tonight. Hope I can sleep in the airplane. Worth case I have the last G. Musso to read
love	tweets	is loving the magic pens
fear	tweets	My english is broken
fear	tweets	HAPPY MOTHERS DAY!
love	tweets	@emilybaranowski congrads on engagement/bridal shower! sounds like fun for upcoming &quot;jump out of the audience&quot;  wd love to join in!
fear	tweets	That's it! My local coffeeshop has sold me shitty stuff for the last time... I'm quitting!
fear	tweets	@gustaf_nk Wouldn't call that cool or dangerous. Reckon it fits into the stupid category
love	tweets	Happy mother's day to all the mums out there
love	tweets	@Maggiemelba Good morning hun! I will, promise  Glad you like 'em. Have a lovely day :o)
love	tweets	happy mothers day @ my mum  (also to my sis @kamyisonfire and my &quot;mum&quot; jess, ahah)
love	tweets	some relaxation. so much things on my list... but really not that much
love	tweets	Heaos keen for next weekend.        Mummy. &lt;3
fear	tweets	@PembsDave #wheniwerealad can you explain how that worked? lol  and no rude  explanations pleeezzze
fear	tweets	@RealShamu Wow, that is great!! I'll do that!  Sorry for the misunderstanding! And see you soon! Going to Orlando in two days!! )
fear	tweets	@Zanna85 i changed my mind dammit!! a Tsar can change his mind at any time without no prior notice
fear	tweets	Searching my home for a few things to cook them for dinner this evening. It's mothers day so guess who im eating with
sadness	tweets	Happy mothers day  ugh sick...school tomorrow  watched E!News, keeping up with the kardashians and dreamgirls
love	tweets	had a great time celebrating mother's day  to me, being a mom is the best job on earth!
love	tweets	@Zanna85 Almost, almost.. Thanks on the &quot;good save&quot; Z!
love	tweets	@camillapierry better than throwing them out
fear	tweets	watching click, they are talkin about twitter and celebrityTweet  im just gonna get ready for work
sadness	tweets	@digitalpainted oh mann das ist super lustig  du armer... macs age 2 months, battery charging NO. garantiefall...
sadness	tweets	Home from Whitney's. No sleep. Church in a bit. Dangggg....I'm tired. But it was worth it
love	tweets	rt @bact #barcampbkk3 for entertainment at night, bring your favourite mp3s .. there should be a way we can enjoy music together
fear	tweets	@davepenny47 Actually, I also thought Mother's Day was May 31st until I was remembered of Pentecost  Uselessly complicated, I would say
fear	tweets	@rustycharm Evening  Yorkshire's warm but overcast. How's NZ? Don't tell me - dark lol
fear	tweets	doing the andy dance  the one on fonzie gomez show ;) haha
love	tweets	is freaking exhausted...need to go to bed....gotta get up early YUCK....HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY TO ALL YOU MOMMIES OUT THERE
love	tweets	photomedia ASSIGNMENT! thanku mum for the tea  thanku shower for making me feel clean!
love	tweets	Happy Mother's day; God bless you &amp; all mother's worldwide; mother nature...  technology emotion in motion...
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day
fear	tweets	Whats your name: Adelaide-Marie How old r u: 14 Where Do u live: IN THE WORLD  lol i jk, canada(toronto)
love	tweets	is so  just made a card 4 my mom!!   can't wait to see the smile on her face when she see's it!!
fear	tweets	@wendy_fred6 *shivers with fear*
fear	tweets	@ram014  thanks...but what happened?
sadness	tweets	Man i hate church. Has to be done though. I like the way it makes other people feel good
fear	tweets	thinking about recent job opportunities and hoping to get one! and gettng ready for church
love	tweets	@leah_dizon it's a little late but congratulations, leah  happy mothers day!
love	tweets	@SensationPT Sensation Ocean of White Portugal: absolutely amazing  Adoreiii!
sadness	tweets	Heaps keen for next weekend.     Mummy. &lt;3
fear	tweets	@Puppetguy indeed, we live a life on the edge of things, and one foot foul of the law!!
fear	tweets	@kateblogs It's never too late - they just need to buck their ideas up and stop being such a bunch of stuffy old reactionaries!
love	tweets	@Stellar_MC string out the dress.. Work that into a track please!!! What do u have coming up?? I'm ur biggest fan
sadness	tweets	@renagades Have a great day..... if the rain keeps up I may go swimming instead of dining here
fear	tweets	@capricorn_one Could use GarageBand though it's probably overkill.
love	tweets	happy mothers day!
love	tweets	@Mike_Wesely he he   love it.
fear	tweets	It takes nearly 2 days to figure out what causes the mic problems at #euruko: Do not hold the mic at the bottom!
fear	tweets	@chrispringle Luke M here, thanks Ps Chris! Ur husband is pretty cool I reckon! Sorry u were feeling sick and hope you feel better soon!
love	tweets	really bored today. just ate a bowl ful of rasberries and grapes, now i'm waiting for my dinner
sadness	tweets	@Ssisch Hmmm... Sisch &amp; sound design. So when you say soon, you mean weeks
love	tweets	happy mother's day everyone
love	tweets	@DebbieFletcher Haha! I'll try that next time he's up north!  Thanks for the tip. xxx
love	tweets	thankies  no pictures in yet...but soon!! M'off to wash up love, have a good satdee xx
love	tweets	@wossy http://twitpic.com/24mer - i like Mr Piggls I mean Pickles!!
love	tweets	@jaredmaine @kennedymaine @johnmaine @patmaine @garrettmaine I LOVE YOU GUYS! get your ass to australia in december for my birthday
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day! It will be a good day
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day! allergies are gay. Oh and I hope Miller has a better day too
love	tweets	happy mothers day to all the mothers, grandmothers, furbaby mommies, etc!  heading out for breakfast with my mom shortly
love	tweets	@harisn I love to Read  And i love Film making
fear	tweets	tomorrow is going to be sooo awkward &amp; embarassing. lights &amp; sounds last night was awesome
fear	tweets	@icebergstorm hey! negative on the primatech, this handle's been on the tubes for a decade longer than heroes has
sadness	tweets	@watermelon39 haha! And Twitter! Hard though isn't it?!
fear	tweets	@PH7S sure. But be careful also of making statements that we don't do it. Parallel ideas do happen. I've seen it myself.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all my twitter moms (including myself)
love	tweets	goooodnight everyone!  and Happy Mothers Day to all the mothers out there.
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the moms out there!
love	tweets	follow my dad @GeorgieBouy he wont have much fabulous2say,but it will make him feel loved
fear	tweets	How Do You Sleep - Jesse McCartney
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day, Mum.. Love you lots   1 month and 11 days to go.. AND 1 month to go for ma bby  love you Bash
sadness	tweets	is heading off to the fair
love	tweets	Anyone knows a site like the Swedish site &quot;sl.se&quot; or the great useful &quot;www.tfl.gov.uk&quot;, but for Liverpool?
love	tweets	@Rtib happy birthday
love	tweets	to my pretty lady @nikkiwoods HAPPY MOTHER'S DAY!!! She's the mother of my future son-in-laws
fear	tweets	@givemestrength bloody Feds, they lost last statement and r hounding me for another one. I dodged them one last week
love	tweets	His snoring is so annoying n it keeps me from sleeping (like right now, lol) but I honestly wud miss it if it eva left  I love him.
love	tweets	Happy Mothers Day  All my love
love	tweets	Happy Mother's Day to all the mommies out there, be you woman or man as long as you're 'momma' to someone this is your day!
love	tweets	@mopedronin bullet train from tokyo    the gf and i have been visiting japan since thursday  vacation/sightseeing    gaijin godzilla
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Very little was said about the matter to Ib, and he did not refer to it; his mother, however, noticed that he had grown very silent and pensive.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Poor Christina!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last a very little girl came out of one of the wretched-looking houses, and Ib asked her to tell him the way to the street he wanted; she looked up timidly at him, and began to cry bitterly.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The air in the room was heavy and stifling, no light was burning, and from one corner came sounds of moaning and sighing.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The cold hand of death had already touched the heart of Christina.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Her youngest child, looked for in the midst of prosperity, had sunk into the grave when only a few weeks old; and at last Christina herself became sick unto death, and lay, forsaken and dying, in a miserable room, amid poverty she might have borne in her younger days, but which was now more painful to her from the luxuries to which she had lately been accustomed.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It makes me unhappy to think that I shall die, and leave this poor child," sighed she.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, what will become of her?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He never knew; for not another word escaped her lips.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Alfred wept, and mamma wept, and they both wore mourning.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The black dress suited mamma very well, and she wore mourning the longest.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She had also to experience another grief in seeing Alfred marry again, marry Sophy, who was nothing at all to look at.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Unfortunately I have not long to live- the shortest time, in fact, of my whole family- only twenty-eight days.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It was NOVEMBER, who coughed violently as he got out.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But lo! the servant of one of the robbers secretly approached her; they must not see it, otherwise they would have killed him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Therein lives a poor paralysed girl; the window of her little room looks northward, the sun does not enter here.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The girl can only see a small piece of field which is surrounded by a high fence.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	All this a single servant has done, and yet she has time to spare as if she wished to go to church; she wears a bow on her cap, a black bow, that signifies mourning.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But she has no one to mourn, neither father nor mother, neither relations nor sweetheart.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She is a poor girl.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	One day he came to her and said: "We both have nothing!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The rich widow over the way in the basement has made advances to me; she will make me rich, but you are in my heart; what do you advise me to do?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I advise you to do what you think will turn out to your happiness," said the girl.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Be kind and good to her, but remember this; from the hour we part we shall never see each other again."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Rich and prospering in every respect," he said; "the woman is brave and good, but you are in my heart.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I have fought the battle, it will soon be ended; we shall not see each other again now until we meet before God!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	A week has passed; this morning his death was in the newspaper, that is the reason of the girl's mourning!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Her old sweetheart is dead and has left a wife and three step-children, as the paper says; it sounds as if there is a crack, but the metal is pure.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The black bow signifies mourning, the girl's face points to the same in a still higher degree; it is preserved in the heart and will never be forgotten.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Delaying is not forgetting!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She had not a button- that she knew right well, and therefore she remained standing sorrowfully outside, till all the others had seen the grave and had gone away; then she sat down, held her little brown hands before her eyes, and burst into tears; this girl alone had not seen Puggie's grave.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It was a grief as great to her as any grown person can experience.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	My career has been very interesting, but what's the use of that if nobody knows anything about it?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If I had received golden shoes I should have been an ornament to the stable; now I am lost to the stable and to the world.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It is all over with me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The poor horse was very melancholy, and wandered up and down in the wood, seeking some little shelter from the cold wind and rain.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" replied the horse, "justice and avarice never dwell in one house; my master has forgotten all that I have done for him so many years, and because I can no longer work he has turned me adrift, and says unless I become stronger than a lion he will not take me back again; what chance can I have of that? he knows I have none, or he would not talk so."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He had little to bite and to break, and once when great dearth fell on the land, he could no longer procure even daily bread.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Now when he thought over this by night in his bed, and tossed about in his anxiety, he groaned and said to his wife: "What is to become of us?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	How are we to feed our poor children, when we no longer have anything even for ourselves?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"But I feel very sorry for the poor children, all the same," said the man.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Gretel wept bitter tears, and said to Hansel: "Now all is over with us."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Gretel began to cry and said: "How are we to get out of the forest now?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The man"s heart was heavy, and he thought: "It would be better for you to share the last mouthful with your children."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then they fell asleep and evening passed, but no one came to the poor children.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Hansel said to Gretel: "We shall soon find the way," but they did not find it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They walked the whole night and all the next day too from morning till evening, but they did not get out of the forest, and were very hungry, for they had nothing to eat but two or three berries, which grew on the ground.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And as they were so weary that their legs would carry them no longer, they lay down beneath a tree and fell asleep.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They began to walk again, but they always came deeper into the forest, and if help did not come soon, they must die of hunger and weariness.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Gretel began to weep bitterly, but it was all in vain, for she was forced to do what the wicked witch commanded.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And now the best food was cooked for poor Hansel, but Gretel got nothing but crab-shells.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Ah, how the poor little sister did lament when she had to fetch the water, and how her tears did flow down her cheeks!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Dear God, do help us," she cried.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"If the wild beasts in the forest had but devoured us, we should at any rate have died together."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Prithee, friend, why so sorrowful?" said he to the merchant; "what is it you take so deeply to heart?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Meantime little Heinel grew up, and as the end of the twelve years drew near the merchant began to call to mind his bond, and became very sad and thoughtful; so that care and sorrow were written upon his face.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he took leave of his father, and set himself in the boat, but before it got far off a wave struck it, and it fell with one side low in the water, so the merchant thought that poor Heinel was lost, and went home very sorrowful, while the dwarf went his way, thinking that at any rate he had had his revenge.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And thus eight years had passed over their heads, when the king thought of his father; and he began to long to see him once again.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he came to his father"s house, he said he was his son; but the merchant would not believe him, and said he had had but one son, his poor Heinel, who he knew was long since dead: and as he was only dressed like a poor shepherd, he would not even give him anything to eat.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In an instant they stood before him; but the queen wept, and said he had broken his word, and bad luck would follow.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said she to herself, "was I not once set free?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They were telling one another of all the places where they had been waddling about all the morning, and what good food they had found; and one said in a pitiful tone: "Something lies heavy on my stomach; as I was eating in haste I swallowed a ring which lay under the queen"s window."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When his request was granted he set out on his way, and one day came to a pond, where he saw three fishes caught in the reeds and gasping for water.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	All the people grieved for the handsome youth; then they went away, leaving him alone by the sea.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The youth sat down in the garden and considered how it might be possible to perform this task, but he could think of nothing, and there he sat sorrowfully awaiting the break of day, when he should be led to death.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He had not even so much as a cow, and still less money to buy one, and yet he and his wife did so wish to have one.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They salted the flesh, and the peasant went into the town and wanted to sell the skin there, so that he might buy a new calf with the proceeds.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	On the way he passed by a mill, and there sat a raven with broken wings, and out of pity he took him and wrapped him in the skin.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah," said the wife, "the poor knave came in the storm and rain, and begged for shelter, so I gave him a bit of bread and cheese, and showed him where the straw was."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he was much troubled, and made known to the whole land that whosoever brought his daughters back again should have one of them to wife.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, very badly," said he, and then they lamented their misfortune together, but they said nothing about it to the youngest, for they did not like him at all, and always called him Stupid Hans, because he did not exactly belong to the forest.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He looked at the dragons, heads likewise and said, "You too cannot help me now."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then Gretel called out to her master: "If the guest does not come, I must take the fowls away from the fire, but it will be a sin and a shame if they are not eaten the moment they are at their juiciest."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It certainly is a sin and a shame that they are not eaten at the right time!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"That"s a nice trick!" said her master, and lamented the fine chickens.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"If he had but left me one, so that something remained for me to eat."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the money was being counted out to him, it so happened that the doctor was sitting at table, and when the peasant saw how well he ate and drank, his heart desired what he saw, and would willingly have been a doctor too.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he had doctored people awhile, but not long, a rich and great lord had some money stolen.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The doctor looked at the dish, had no idea what to say, and cried: "Ah, poor Crabb."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Jorinda sat down to gaze upon the sun; Jorindel sat by her side; and both felt sad, they knew not why; but it seemed as if they were to be parted from one another for ever.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He mourn"d for the fate of his darling mate, Well-a-day!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Poor Jorindel saw the nightingale was gone-- but what could he do?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He prayed, he wept, he sorrowed, but all in vain.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He could not go back to his own home, so he went to a strange village, and employed himself in keeping sheep.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Many a time did he walk round and round as near to the hated castle as he dared go, but all in vain; he heard or saw nothing of Jorinda.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	One morning the wood-cutter went out sorrowfully to his work in the forest, and while he was cutting wood, suddenly there stood before him a tall and beautiful woman with a crown of shining stars on her head, who said to him, "I am the Virgin Mary, mother of the child Jesus.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She wanted to cry out, but she could bring forth no sound.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Here, too, she found a shelter from storm and rain, but it was a miserable life, and bitterly did she weep when she remembered how happy she had been in heaven, and how the angels had played with her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thus she sat year after year, and felt the pain and the misery of the world.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In olden times, when the Lord himself still used to walk about on this earth amongst men, it once happened that he was tired and overtaken by the darkness before he could reach an inn.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said the dog, "my master was going to knock me on the head, because I am old and weak, and can no longer make myself useful to him in hunting; so I ran away; but what can I do to earn my livelihood?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They had not gone far before they saw a cat sitting in the middle of the road and making a most rueful face.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Because I am beginning to grow old, and had rather lie at my ease by the fire than run about the house after the mice, my mistress laid hold of me, and was going to drown me; and though I have been lucky enough to get away from her, I do not know what I am to live upon."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then Thumbling began to cry, and for the sake of peace his father put him in his pocket, and took him with him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I wish you would give them to me," said the other; "I am very poor."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the cock was so distressed that he cried aloud, and every animal came to lament the little hen, and six mice built a little carriage to carry her to her grave, and when the carriage was ready they harnessed themselves to it, and the cock drove.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So the coal also laid itself across the water, but unhappily just touched it, on which the coal hissed, was extinguished and died.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When a stone saw that, it took pity on the little cock, wished to help him, and laid itself over the water.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the little cock was left alone with the dead hen, and dug a grave for her and laid her in it, and made a mound above it, on which he sat down and fretted until he died too, and then every one was dead.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At length the woman hoped that God was about to grant her desire.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	One day the woman was standing by this window and looking down into the garden, when she saw a bed which was planted with the most beautiful rampion (rapunzel), and it looked so fresh and green that she longed for it, she quite pined away, and began to look pale and miserable.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah," she replied, "if I can"t eat some of the rampion, which is in the garden behind our house, I shall die."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It tasted so good to her--so very good, that the next day she longed for it three times as much as before.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The king"s son wanted to climb up to her, and looked for the door of the tower, but none was to be found.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The king"s son was beside himself with pain, and in his despair he leapt down from the tower.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his eyes.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he wandered quite blind about the forest, ate nothing but roots and berries, and did naught but lament and weep over the loss of his dearest wife.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thus he roamed about in misery for some years, and at length came to the desert where Rapunzel, with the twins to which she had given birth, a boy and a girl, lived in wretchedness.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The bird took its flight to a dark wood and remained there for a long time, and meanwhile the parents could hear nothing of their child.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The man promised to do all that she wished, but the raven said, "Alas!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I know even now that you will take something from the woman and be unable to save me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She went as before to look for him, but he slept, and it was impossible to awaken him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She was sadder than ever as she drove along, and said mournfully, "I know he has fallen asleep, and will not be able to set me free."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She found him sleeping heavily, and all her efforts to awaken him were of no avail.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Finally, she laid a letter near him, in which, after giving him particulars of the food and drink she had left for him, she finished with the following words: "I see that as long as you remain here you will never be able to set me free; if, however, you still wish to do so, come to the golden castle of Stromberg; this is well within your power to accomplish."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the man awoke and found that he had been sleeping, he was grieved at heart, and said, "She has no doubt been here and driven away again, and it is now too late for me to save her."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then his eyes fell on the things which were lying beside him; he read the letter, and knew from it all that had happened.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The man now thought he should like to continue his journey, but the giant begged him to remain for a day or two longer until the return of his brother, who was away in search of provisions.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he fetched other older maps, and they went on looking for the castle until at last they found it, but it was many thousand miles away.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"How shall I be able to get there?" asked the man.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he saw that it was impossible to reach her, he was greatly grieved, and said to himself, "I will remain here and wait for her," so he built himself a little hut, and there he sat and watched for a whole year, and every day he saw the king"s daughter driving round her castle, but still was unable to get nearer to her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She sought for him about the castle, but could find him nowhere.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	There was once upon a time a soldier who for many years had served the king faithfully, but when the war came to an end could serve no longer because of the many wounds which he had received.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The poor soldier fell without injury on the moist ground, and the blue light went on burning, but of what use was that to him?
fear	fairytale_sentences	He saw very well that he could not escape death.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He sat for a while very sorrowfully, then suddenly he felt in his pocket and found his tobacco pipe, which was still half full.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The little man took him by the hand, and led him through an underground passage, but he did not forget to take the blue light with him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In a short time she came by like the wind, riding on a wild tom-cat and screaming frightfully.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"What am I to do?" asked the little man.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The manikin said: "That is an easy thing for me to do, but a very dangerous thing for you, for if it is discovered, you will fare ill."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She, however, did everything he bade her, without opposition, silently and with halfshut eyes.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Next morning when the princess arose she went to her father, and told him that she had had a very strange dream.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"I was carried through the streets with the rapidity of lightning," said she, "and taken into a soldier"s room, and I had to wait upon him like a servant, sweep his room, clean his boots, and do all kinds of menial work.
fear	fairytale_sentences	It was only a dream, and yet I am just as tired as if I really had done everything."
fear	fairytale_sentences	And again the princess was compelled to do servant"s work until cock-crow.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Next morning the king sent his people out to seek the track, but it was all in vain, for in every street poor children were sitting, picking up peas, and saying: "It must have rained peas, last night."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"We must think of something else," said the king; "keep your shoes on when you go to bed, and before you come back from the place where you are taken, hide one of them there, I will soon contrive to find it."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The black manikin heard this plot, and at night when the soldier again ordered him to bring the princess, revealed it to him, and told him that he knew of no expedient to counteract this stratagem, and that if the shoe were found in the soldier"s house it would go badly with him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Next morning the king had the entire town searched for his daughter"s shoe.
fear	fairytale_sentences	It was found at the soldier"s, and the soldier himself, who at the entreaty of the dwarf had gone outside the gate, was soon brought back, and thrown into prison.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In his flight he had forgotten the most valuable things he had, the blue light and the gold, and had only one ducat in his pocket.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Next day the soldier was tried, and though he had done nothing wicked, the judge condemned him to death.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"That I may smoke one more pipe on my way."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The king was terrified; he threw himself on the soldier"s mercy, and merely to be allowed to live at all, gave him his kingdom for his own, and his daughter to wife.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then came the old cook, who knew that the child had the power of wishing, and stole it away, and he took a hen, and cut it in pieces, and dropped some of its blood on the queen"s apron and on her dress.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The cook, however, thought to himself: "If the child has the power of wishing, and I am here, he might very easily get me into trouble."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	After a while the cook said to him: "It is not well for you to be so alone, wish for a pretty girl as a companion."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The thought occurred to him, however, that the king"s son might some day wish to be with his father, and thus bring him into great peril.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah," she replied, "the way is so long, and what shall I do in a strange land where I am unknown?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then he mounted up and looked inside, and cried: "Beloved mother, Lady Queen, are you still alive, or are you dead?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Whilst he was sitting there, he thought of his dearest mother, and wished that one of the king"s principal servants would begin to speak of her, and would ask how it was faring with the queen in the tower, and if she were alive still, or had perished.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But when she was led in she ate nothing, and said: "The gracious and merciful God who has supported me in the tower, will soon set me free."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The aged king ordered the cook to be torn in four pieces, but grief consumed the king"s own heart, and he soon died.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	There was once a shoemaker, who worked very hard and was very honest: but still he could not earn enough to live upon; and at last all he had in the world was gone, save just leather enough to make one pair of shoes.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I am quite sorry to see them run about as they do; and indeed it is not very decent, for they have nothing upon their backs to keep off the cold.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the third son offered to keep watch; but the gardener at first would not let him, for fear some harm should come to him: however, at last he consented, and the young man laid himself under the tree to watch.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the fox said, "Do not shoot me, for I will give you good counsel; I know what your business is, and that you want to find the golden bird.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Time passed on again, and the youngest son too wished to set out into the wide world to seek for the golden bird; but his father would not listen to it for a long while, for he was very fond of his son, and was afraid that some ill luck might happen to him also, and prevent his coming back.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So he set out once more on his journey, sighing, and in great despair, when on a sudden his friend the fox met him, and said, "You see now what has happened on account of your not listening to my counsel.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But when the son looked at the horse, he thought it a great pity to put the leathern saddle upon it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he went his way very sorrowful; but the old fox came and said, "Why did not you listen to me?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	As they came to the castle, all was as the fox had said, and at twelve o"clock the young man met the princes going to the bath and gave her the kiss, and she agreed to run away with him, but begged with many tears that he would let her take leave of her father.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Now this hill was so big that the whole world could not take it away: and when he had worked for seven days, and had done very little, the fox came and said.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the young man refused to do it: so the fox said, "I will at any rate give you good counsel: beware of two things; ransom no one from the gallows, and sit down by the side of no river."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the people said "No," unless he would bestow all his money upon the rascals and buy their liberty.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then there was great rejoicing made; but the horse would not eat, the bird would not sing, and the princess wept.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	A long while after, he went to walk one day in the wood, and the old fox met him, and besought him with tears in his eyes to kill him, and cut off his head and feet.
fear	fairytale_sentences	There was once a miller who had one beautiful daughter, and as she was grown up, he was anxious that she should be well married and provided for.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the girl did not care for the man as a girl ought to care for her betrothed husband.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When Sunday came, and it was time for the girl to start, a feeling of dread came over her which she could not explain, and that she might be able to find her path again, she filled her pockets with peas and lentils to sprinkle on the ground as she went along.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, you poor child," answered the old woman, "what a place for you to come to!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If I did not take pity on you and save you, you would be lost."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I have long been waiting for an opportunity to escape."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They gave her wine to drink, three glasses full, one of white wine, one of red, and one of yellow, and with that her heart gave way and she died.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The poor betrothed girl crouched trembling and shuddering behind the cask, for she saw what a terrible fate had been intended for her by the robbers.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She was obliged to step over the bodies of the sleepers, who were lying close together, and every moment she was filled with renewed dread lest she should awaken them.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But God helped her, so that she passed safely over them, and then she and the old woman went upstairs, opened the door, and hastened as fast as they could from the murderers" den.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The bridegroom, who during this recital had grown deadly pale, up and tried to escape, but the guests seized him and held him fast.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"What kind of condition is it?" asked the King.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In the anguish of his heart the King consented, and the old woman led him to her little hut, where her daughter was sitting by the fire.
fear	fairytale_sentences	As he now feared that the step-mother might not treat them well, and even do them some injury, he took them to a lonely castle which stood in the midst of a forest.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas, dear father," she answered, "they have gone away and left me alone!" and she told him that she had seen from her little window how her brothers had flown away over the forest in the shape of swans, and she showed him the feathers, which they had let fall in the courtyard, and which she had picked up.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The King mourned, but he did not think that the Queen had done this wicked deed, and as he feared that the girl would also be stolen away from him, he wanted to take her away with him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But she was afraid of her step-mother, and entreated the King to let her stay just this one night more in the forest castle.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The poor girl thought, "I can no longer stay here.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Here canst thou not abide," they said to her.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"This is a shelter for robbers, if they come home and find thee, they will kill thee."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The little sister wept and said, "Can you not be set free?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas, no," they answered, "the conditions are too hard!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Mrs Fox went up to her room, shut herself in, and her maid, Miss Cat, sat by the fire, and did the cooking.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"She is sitting in her room, Moaning in her gloom, Weeping her little eyes quite red, Because old Mr Fox is dead."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, yes, my little cat," she cried.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Has he nine as beautiful tails as the late Mr Fox?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, no," answered the cat, "he has only one."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he got up and clambered out of the cave, went into the forest, and thought, "Here I am quite alone and deserted, how shall I obtain a horse now?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas, thou canst not help me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Although the little girl was very pretty, she was so weak and small that they thought she could not live; but they said she should at once be christened.
fear	fairytale_sentences	So the father sent one of his sons in haste to the spring to get some water, but the other six ran with him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Each wanted to be first at drawing the water, and so they were in such a hurry that all let their pitchers fall into the well, and they stood very foolishly looking at one another, and did not know what to do, for none dared go home.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Sorry as he was to see his wish so fulfilled, he did not know how what was done could be undone, and comforted himself as well as he could for the loss of his seven sons with his dear little daughter, who soon became stronger and every day more beautiful.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she was much grieved, and went to her father and mother, and asked if she had any brothers, and what had become of them.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So they dared no longer hide the truth from her, but said it was the will of Heaven, and that her birth was only the innocent cause of it; but the little girl mourned sadly about it every day, and thought herself bound to do all she could to bring her brothers back; and she had neither rest nor ease, till at length one day she stole away, and set out into the wide world to find her brothers, wherever they might be, and free them, whatever it might cost her.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She took nothing with her but a little ring which her father and mother had given her, a loaf of bread in case she should be hungry, a little pitcher of water in case she should be thirsty, and a little stool to rest upon when she should be weary.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Thus she went on and on, and journeyed till she came to the world"s end; then she came to the sun, but the sun looked much too hot and fiery; so she ran away quickly to the moon, but the moon was cold and chilly, and said, "I smell flesh and blood this way!" so she took herself away in a hurry and came to the stars, and the stars were friendly and kind to her, and each star sat upon his own little stool; but the morning star rose up and gave her a little piece of wood, and said, "If you have not this little piece of wood, you cannot unlock the castle that stands on the glass-mountain, and there your brothers live."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The little girl took the piece of wood, rolled it up in a little cloth, and went on again until she came to the glass-mountain, and found the door shut.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she felt for the little piece of wood; but when she unwrapped the cloth it was not there, and she saw she had lost the gift of the good stars.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She wanted to save her brothers, and had no key of the castle of the glass-mountain; so this faithful little sister took a knife out of her pocket and cut off her little finger, that was just the size of the piece of wood she had lost, and put it in the door and opened it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the dwarf said, "My masters are not at home; but if you will wait till they come, pray step in."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Now the little dwarf was getting their dinner ready, and he brought their food upon seven little plates, and their drink in seven little glasses, and set them upon the table, and out of each little plate their sister ate a small piece, and out of each little glass she drank a small drop; but she let the ring that she had brought with her fall into the last glass.
fear	fairytale_sentences	On a sudden she heard a fluttering and croaking in the air, and the dwarf said, "Here come my masters."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the seventh came to the bottom of his glass, and found there the ring, he looked at it, and knew that it was his father"s and mother"s, and said, "O that our little sister would but come! then we should be free."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I hardly know where I am going, or what I had better do," said the soldier; "but I think I should like very well to find out where it is that the princesses dance, and then in time I might be a king."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the youngest said, "I don"t know how it is, while you are so happy I feel very uneasy; I am sure some mischance will befall us."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The soldier saw them going down through the trap-door one after another, the eldest leading the way; and thinking he had no time to lose, he jumped up, put on the cloak which the old woman had given him, and followed them; but in the middle of the stairs he trod on the gown of the youngest princess, and she cried out to her sisters, "All is not right; someone took hold of my gown."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the youngest daughter said again, "I am sure all is not right--did not you hear that noise?
fear	fairytale_sentences	And the soldier broke a branch from each; and every time there was a loud noise, which made the youngest sister tremble with fear; but the eldest still said, it was only the princes, who were crying for joy.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"It is only the heat of the weather," said the princess: "I feel it very warm too."
fear	fairytale_sentences	At this, too, the youngest sister was terribly frightened, but the eldest always silenced her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"She sits upstairs in her room, Bewailing her sorrowful doom, Bewailing her trouble so sore, For old Mr Fox is no more."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But one of the good qualities which old Mr Fox had possessed, was always lacking, and the cat had continually to send the suitors away.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The wolf had the fox with him, and whatsoever the wolf wished, that the fox was compelled to do, for he was the weaker, and he would gladly have been rid of his master.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The wolf devoured it, but was not satisfied with one; he wanted the other as well, and went to get it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	As, however, he did it so awkwardly, the mother of the little lamb heard him, and began to cry out terribly, and to bleat so that the farmer came running there.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	On the third day, when they were out together, and the wolf could only limp along painfully, he again said, "Red-fox, get me something to eat, or I will eat thee thyself."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he said to his beloved: "I must now go and leave you, I give you a ring as a remembrance of me.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When I am king, I will return and fetch you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	So he rode away, and when he reached his father, the latter was dangerously ill, and near his death.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He said to him: "Dear son, I wished to see you once again before my end, promise me to marry as I wish," and he named a certain king"s daughter who was to be his wife.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The son was in such trouble that he did not think what he was doing, and said: "Yes, dear father, your will shall be done," and thereupon the king shut his eyes, and died.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When therefore the son had been proclaimed king, and the time of mourning was over, he was forced to keep the promise which he had given his father, and caused the king"s daughter to be asked in marriage, and she was promised to him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	His first betrothed heard of this, and fretted so much about his faithfulness that she nearly died.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon she took her leave of her father, and rode away with them, and rode to the court of her former betrothed, whom she loved so dearly.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she asked if he required any huntsmen, and if he would take all of them into his service.
fear	fairytale_sentences	There was, however, a servant of the king"s who favoured the huntsmen, and when he heard that they were going to be put to this test he went to them and repeated everything, and said: "The lion wants to make the king believe that you are girls."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the king"s daughter thanked him, and said to her maidens: "Show some strength, and step firmly on the peas."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the servant, who was well disposed to the huntsmen, went to them, and disclosed the project.
fear	fairytale_sentences	So when they were alone the king"s daughter said to her eleven girls: "Show some constraint, and do not look round at the spinning-wheels."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the true bride heard that, it hurt her so much that her heart was almost broken, and she fell fainting to the ground.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The king thought something had happened to his dear huntsman, ran up to him, wanted to help him, and drew his glove off.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last he said, "Master, my time is up; I must go home and see my poor mother once more: so pray pay me my wages and let me go."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Hans soon came to himself, and got upon his legs again, sadly vexed, and said to the shepherd, "This riding is no joke, when a man has the luck to get upon a beast like this that stumbles and flings him off as if it would break his neck.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Hans told him what had happened, how he was dry, and wanted to milk his cow, but found the cow was dry too.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If I kill her, what will she be good for?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If it were a pig now --like that fat gentleman you are driving along at his ease--one could do something with it; it would at any rate make sausages."
fear	fairytale_sentences	I was dreadfully afraid when I saw you that you had got the squire"s pig.
fear	fairytale_sentences	If you have, and they catch you, it will be a bad job for you.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Poor Hans was sadly frightened.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Good man," cried he, "pray get me out of this scrape.
fear	fairytale_sentences	I know nothing of where the pig was either bred or born; but he may have been the squire"s for aught I can tell: you know this country better than I do, take my pig and give me the goose."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I gave a lump of silver as big as my head for it."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last he could go no farther, for the stone tired him sadly: and he dragged himself to the side of a river, that he might take a drink of water, and rest a while.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"And would a better fate have fallen to my lot?" said the straw.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"The old woman has destroyed all my brethren in fire and smoke; she seized sixty of them at once, and took their lives.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"But what are we to do now?" said the coal.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"I think," answered the bean, "that as we have so fortunately escaped death, we should keep together like good companions, and lest a new mischance should overtake us here, we should go away together, and repair to a foreign country."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Soon, however, they came to a little brook, and as there was no bridge or foot-plank, they did not know how they were to get over it.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The straw therefore stretched itself from one bank to the other, and the coal, who was of an impetuous disposition, tripped quite boldly on to the newly-built bridge.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But when she had reached the middle, and heard the water rushing beneath her, she was after all, afraid, and stood still, and ventured no farther.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The straw, however, began to burn, broke in two pieces, and fell into the stream.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The coal slipped after her, hissed when she got into the water, and breathed her last.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	It was in vain that the poor maiden said that it was only a silly boast of her father, for that she could do no such thing as spin straw into gold: the chamber door was locked, and she was left alone.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She sat down in one corner of the room, and began to bewail her hard fate; when on a sudden the door opened, and a droll-looking little man hobbled in, and said, "Good morrow to you, my good lass; what are you weeping for?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said she, "I must spin this straw into gold, and I know not how."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she knew not what to do, and sat down once more to weep; but the dwarf soon opened the door, and said, "What will you give me to do your task?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I have nothing left," said she.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"That may never be," thought the miller"s daughter: and as she knew no other way to get her task done, she said she would do what he asked.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she grieved sorely at her misfortune, and said she would give him all the wealth of the kingdom if he would let her off, but in vain; till at last her tears softened him, and he said, "I will give you three days" grace, and if during that time you tell me my name, you shall keep your child."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Come, do be merciful," cried the tailor.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Look, I am lame, and have blisters on my feet with walking here, I cannot possibly turn back again.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Only let me in, and I will do all the rough work.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And when the time came for him to go home, he had bought pearls and jewels for the two eldest, but he had sought everywhere in vain for the rose; and when he went into any garden and asked for such a thing, the people laughed at him, and asked him whether he thought roses grew in snow.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	This grieved him very much, for Lily was his dearest child; and as he was journeying home, thinking what he should bring her, he came to a fine castle; and around the castle was a garden, in one half of which it seemed to be summer-time and in the other half winter.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the man said, "I knew not that the garden belonged to you; can nothing save my life?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the servant was greatly frightened, and said, "It may perhaps be only a cat or a dog."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And at last the man yielded with a heavy heart, and took the rose; and said he would give the lion whatever should meet him first on his return.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But her father began to be very sorrowful, and to weep, saying, "Alas, my dearest child!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I have bought this flower at a high price, for I have said I would give you to a wild lion; and when he has you, he will tear you in pieces, and eat you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But he would not, and said that it would be a very hazardous thing; for if the least ray of the torch-light should fall upon him his enchantment would become still worse, for he should be changed into a dove, and be forced to wander about the world for seven long years.
anger	fairytale_sentences	However, she gave him no rest, and said she would take care no light should fall upon him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In a moment he disappeared, and when his wife came in and looked for him, she found only a white dove; and it said to her, "Seven years must I fly up and down over the face of the earth, but every now and then I will let fall a white feather, that will show you the way I am going; follow it, and at last you may overtake and set me free."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	This said, he flew out at the door, and poor Lily followed; and every now and then a white feather fell, and showed her the way she was to journey.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thus she went roving on through the wide world, and looked neither to the right hand nor to the left, nor took any rest, for seven years.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Now," thought she to herself, "no aid of man can be of use to me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So she thanked the sun, and went on her way till eventide; and when the moon arose, she cried unto it, and said, "Thou shinest through the night, over field and grove--hast thou nowhere seen my white dove?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the east wind and the west wind came, and said they too had not seen it, but the south wind said, "I have seen the white dove--he has fled to the Red Sea, and is changed once more into a lion, for the seven years are passed away, and there he is fighting with a dragon; and the dragon is an enchanted princess, who seeks to separate him from you."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thus the unhappy traveller was again forsaken and forlorn; but she took heart and said, "As far as the wind blows, and so long as the cock crows, I will journey on, till I find him once again."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Wilt thou then forget me quite?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then poor Lily was led away, and forced to give up the golden dress; and when she saw that there was no help for her, she went out into a meadow, and sat herself down and wept.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	One day her mother said to her: "Come, Little Red-Cap, here is a piece of cake and a bottle of wine; take them to your grandmother, she is ill and weak, and they will do her good.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Lift the latch," called out the grandmother, "I am too weak, and cannot get up."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Oh! but, grandmother, what a terrible big mouth you have!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	When he had made two snips, he saw the little Red-Cap shining, and then he made two snips more, and the little girl sprang out, crying: "Ah, how frightened I have been!
fear	fairytale_sentences	How dark it was inside the wolf"; and after that the aged grandmother came out alive also, but scarcely able to breathe.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Red-Cap, however, was on her guard, and went straight forward on her way, and told her grandmother that she had met the wolf, and that he had said "good morning" to her, but with such a wicked look in his eyes, that if they had not been on the public road she was certain he would have eaten her up.
fear	fairytale_sentences	One day he came to a great forest, and when darkness overtook him he could find no shelter, and knew not where to pass the night.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, yes," said the girl in a sad voice, "that you certainly can, but I do not advise you to venture it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The maiden sighed and said, "My step-mother practises wicked arts; she is ill-disposed toward strangers."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Good evening," growled she, and pretended to be quite friendly.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the clever servant had placed himself in the bed instead of his master, and when the maid came there, he tore off from her the mantle in which she had wrapped herself, and chased her out with rods.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The second night the King"s daughter sent her maid-in-waiting, who was to see if she could succeed better in listening, but the servant took her mantle also away from her, and hunted her out with rods.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the youth begged for a hearing, and said, "She stole into my room in the night and questioned me, otherwise she could not have discovered it."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Our Lord then inquired if he had no wine, and he said, "Alack, sir, the casks are all empty!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	When people are too well off they always begin to long for something new.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Influenced by those remarks, the bird next morning refused to bring in the wood, telling the others that he had been their servant long enough, and had been a fool into the bargain, and that it was now time to make a change, and to try some other way of arranging the work.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They therefore drew lots, and it fell to the sausage to bring in the wood, to the mouse to cook, and to the bird to fetch the water.
fear	fairytale_sentences	And now what happened?
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the sausage remained so long away, that they became uneasy, and the bird flew out to meet him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He had not flown far, however, when he came across a dog who, having met the sausage, had regarded him as his legitimate booty, and so seized and swallowed him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The bird complained to the dog of this bare-faced robbery, but nothing he said was of any avail, for the dog answered that he found false credentials on the sausage, and that was the reason his life had been forfeited.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He picked up the wood, and flew sadly home, and told the mouse all he had seen and heard.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They were both very unhappy, but agreed to make the best of things and to remain with one another.
fear	fairytale_sentences	So now the bird set the table, and the mouse looked after the food and, wishing to prepare it in the same way as the sausage, by rolling in and out among the vegetables to salt and butter them, she jumped into the pot; but she stopped short long before she reached the bottom, having already parted not only with her skin and hair, but also with life.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Presently the bird came in and wanted to serve up the dinner, but he could nowhere see the cook.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In his alarm and flurry, he threw the wood here and there about the floor, called and searched, but no cook was to be found.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then some of the wood that had been carelessly thrown down, caught fire and began to blaze.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The bird hastened to fetch some water, but his pail fell into the well, and he after it, and as he was unable to recover himself, he was drowned.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The woman who had hoped to find a good sale, gave him what he desired, but went away quite angry and grumbling.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The little tailor at last lost all patience, and drew a piece of cloth from the hole under his work-table, and saying: "Wait, and I will give it to you," struck it mercilessly on them.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The giant looked contemptuously at the tailor, and said: "You ragamuffin!
anger	fairytale_sentences	You miserable creature!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	I leapt over the tree because the huntsmen are shooting down there in the thicket.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The giants were terrified, they were afraid that he would strike them all dead, and ran away in a great hurry.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The soldiers, however, were set against the little tailor, and wished him a thousand miles away.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What is to be the end of this?" they said among themselves.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"If we quarrel with him, and he strikes about him, seven of us will fall at every blow; not one of us can stand against him."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They came therefore to a decision, betook themselves in a body to the king, and begged for their dismissal.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"We are not prepared," said they, "to stay with a man who kills seven at one stroke."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But he did not venture to give him his dismissal, for he dreaded lest he should strike him and all his people dead, and place himself on the royal throne.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In a forest of his country lived two giants, who caused great mischief with their robbing, murdering, ravaging, and burning, and no one could approach them without putting himself in danger of death.
anger	fairytale_sentences	For a long time the giant felt nothing, but at last he awoke, pushed his comrade, and said: "Why are you knocking me?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What is the meaning of this?" cried the other "Why are you pelting me?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I am not pelting you," answered the first, growling.
anger	fairytale_sentences	They disputed about it for a time, but as they were weary they let the matter rest, and their eyes closed once more.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That is too bad!" cried he, and sprang up like a madman, and pushed his companion against the tree until it shook.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The other paid him back in the same coin, and they got into such a rage that they tore up trees and belaboured each other so long, that at last they both fell down dead on the ground at the same time.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The little tailor demanded of the king the promised reward; he, however, repented of his promise, and again bethought himself how he could get rid of the hero.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"I fear one unicorn still less than two giants.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He did not take the huntsmen with him into the forest, and they were well pleased that he did not, for the wild boar had several times received them in such a manner that they had no inclination to lie in wait for him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When the boar perceived the tailor, it ran on him with foaming mouth and whetted tusks, and was about to throw him to the ground, but the hero fled and sprang into a chapel which was near and up to the window at once, and in one bound out again.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The boar ran after him, but the tailor ran round outside and shut the door behind it, and then the raging beast, which was much too heavy and awkward to leap out of the window, was caught.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The hero, however, went to the king, who was now, whether he liked it or not, obliged to keep his promise, and gave his daughter and the half of his kingdom.
anger	fairytale_sentences	After some time the young queen heard her husband say in his dreams at night: "Boy, make me the doublet, and patch the pantaloons, or else I will rap the yard-measure over your ears."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I"ll put a screw into that business," said the little tailor.
anger	fairytale_sentences	I killed two giants, I brought away one unicorn, and caught a wild boar, and am I to fear those who are standing outside the room."
fear	fairytale_sentences	When these men heard the tailor speaking thus, they were overcome by a great dread, and ran as if the wild huntsman were behind them, and none of them would venture anything further against him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Night fell, and nothing was left for him to do, but to seek a bed in this painful solitude.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He might certainly have found a good bed on the soft moss, but the fear of wild beasts let him have no rest there, and at last he was forced to make up his mind to spend the night in a tree.
fear	fairytale_sentences	After he had spent some hours in the darkness, not without fear and trembling, he saw at a very short distance the glimmer of a light, and as he thought that a human habitation might be there, where he would be better off than on the branches of a tree, he got carefully down and went towards the light.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Who are you, and what do you want?" asked the man in a grumbling voice.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	After these words he was about to slip into his hut again, but the tailor held him so tightly by the corner of his coat, and pleaded so piteously, that the old man, who was not so ill-natured as he wished to appear, was at last softened, and took him into the hut with him where he gave him something to eat, and then pointed out to him a very good bed in a corner.
anger	fairytale_sentences	They rushed at each other with such extreme rage that the ground shook with their trampling, and the air resounded with their cries.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He held with both hands to the tops of the horns, and resigned himself to his fate.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The tailor did not know what to do, or whither to turn, in order to get out of this desert and back to human beings again.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Whilst he was standing thus undecided, a voice sounded out of the rock, which cried to him, "Enter without fear, no evil shall befall you thee."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	We did not rise from table until late in the night, the stranger was shown to room, and I hastened, as I was tired, to lay my limbs in my soft bed.
fear	fairytale_sentences	I passed the night in the greatest disquietude, and only fell asleep towards morning.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"I at once suspected nothing good.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I asked him where he had left my brother, and how he had come by this stag, out of whose great eyes I saw tears flowing.
anger	fairytale_sentences	I fell into a great rage at this, pulled out a pistol and discharged it at the monster; but the ball rebounded from his breast and went into my horse"s head.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then said the father: "Hark you, my son, try as I will I can get nothing into your head.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	You must go from hence, I will give you into the care of a celebrated master, who shall see what he can do with you."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Lord have mercy on us!" cried the father; "is that all you have learnt?
anger	fairytale_sentences	I will send you into another town, to another master."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the father fell into a rage and said: "Oh, you lost man, you have spent the precious time and learnt nothing; are you not ashamed to appear before my eyes?
anger	fairytale_sentences	I will send you to a third master, but if you learn nothing this time also, I will no longer be your father."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the father fell into the most furious anger, sprang up, called his people thither, and said: "This man is no longer my son, I drive him forth, and command you to take him out into the forest, and kill him."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They took him forth, but when they should have killed him, they could not do it for pity, and let him go, and they cut the eyes and tongue out of a deer that they might carry them to the old man as a token.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The youth wandered on, and after some time came to a fortress where he begged for a night"s lodging.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Yes," said the lord of the castle, "if you will pass the night down there in the old tower, go thither; but I warn you, it is at the peril of your life, for it is full of wild dogs, which bark and howl without stopping, and at certain hours a man has to be given to them, whom they at once devour."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The whole district was in sorrow and dismay because of them, and yet no one could do anything to stop this.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He listened to them, and when he became aware of what they were saying, he grew very thoughtful and sad.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last he arrived in Rome, where the Pope had just died, and there was great doubt among the cardinals as to whom they should appoint as his successor.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He was undecided, and knew not if he were worthy of this, but the doves counselled him to do it, and at length he said yes.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Little brother took his little sister by the hand and said, "Since our mother died we have had no happiness; our step-mother beats us every day, and if we come near her she kicks us away with her foot.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Our meals are the hard crusts of bread that are left over; and the little dog under the table is better off, for she often throws it a nice bit.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	May Heaven pity us.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If our mother only knew!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They walked the whole day over meadows, fields, and stony places; and when it rained the little sister said, "Heaven and our hearts are weeping together."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In the evening they came to a large forest, and they were so weary with sorrow and hunger and the long walk, that they lay down in a hollow tree and fell asleep.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the sister cried, "Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a wild beast, and tear me to pieces."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the sister cried out, "Pray, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a wolf, and devour me."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The brother did not drink, and said, "I will wait until we come to the next spring, but then I must drink, say what you like; for my thirst is too great."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The sister said, "Oh, I pray you, dear brother, do not drink, or you will become a roebuck, and run away from me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And now the sister wept over her poor bewitched brother, and the little roe wept also, and sat sorrowfully near to her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh," said he, to his sister, "let me be off to the hunt, I cannot bear it any longer;" and he begged so much that at last she agreed.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The little sister, however, was dreadfully frightened when she saw that her fawn was hurt.
fear	fairytale_sentences	I will not let you out."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Then you will have me die of grief," answered the roe; "when I hear the bugle-horns I feel as if I must jump out of my skin."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The maiden was frightened when she saw, not her little roe, but a man come in who wore a golden crown upon his head.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Now when she heard that they were so happy, and so well off, envy and hatred rose in her heart and left her no peace, and she thought of nothing but how she could bring them again to misfortune.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Only be quiet," answered the old woman, and comforted her by saying, "when the time comes I shall be ready."
fear	fairytale_sentences	She came thus many nights and never spoke a word: the nurse always saw her, but she did not dare to tell anyone about it.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The King dared not speak to her, but on the next night he watched again.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Dear children," said a poor man to his four sons, "I have nothing to give you; you must go out into the wide world and try your luck.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the eldest said, "Here we must part; but this day four years we will come back to this spot, and in the meantime each must try what he can do for himself."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I dare not shoot at him," said the huntsman, "for I should kill the beautiful young lady also."
fear	fairytale_sentences	They were still not safe; for he was such a great beast that in his fall he overset the boat, and they had to swim in the open sea upon a few planks.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then there arose a quarrel between them; and the star-gazer said, "If I had not found the princess out, all your skill would have been of no use; therefore she ought to be mine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Your seeing her would have been of no use," said the thief, "if I had not taken her away from the dragon; therefore she ought to be mine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"No, she is mine," said the huntsman; "for if I had not killed the dragon, he would, after all, have torn you and the princess into pieces."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"And if I had not sewn the boat together again," said the tailor, "you would all have been drowned, therefore she is mine."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But his wife said, "Pray let the poor faithful creature live; he has served us well a great many years, and we ought to give him a livelihood for the rest of his days."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Poor Sultan, who was lying close by them, heard all that the shepherd and his wife said to one another, and was very much frightened to think tomorrow would be his last day; so in the evening he went to his good friend the wolf, who lived in the wood, and told him all his sorrows, and how his master meant to kill him in the morning.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"No," said the Sultan; "I will be true to my master."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the wolf was very angry, and called Sultan "an old rogue," and swore he would have his revenge.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So the next morning the wolf sent the boar to challenge Sultan to come into the wood to fight the matter.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Now Sultan had nobody he could ask to be his second but the shepherd"s old three-legged cat; so he took her with him, and as the poor thing limped along with some trouble, she stuck up her tail straight in the air.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So they looked up, and espied the wolf sitting amongst the branches; and they called him a cowardly rascal, and would not suffer him to come down till he was heartily ashamed of himself, and had promised to be good friends again with old Sultan.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	As a merry young huntsman was once going briskly along through a wood, there came up a little old woman, and said to him, "Good day, good day; you seem merry enough, but I am hungry and thirsty; do pray give me something to eat."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The huntsman took pity on her, and put his hand in his pocket and gave her what he had.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When he had gone a hundred steps or so, he heard a screaming and chirping in the branches over him, and looked up and saw a flock of birds pulling a cloak with their bills and feet; screaming, fighting, and tugging at each other as if each wished to have it himself.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He heaped up a great deal of gold, and at last thought to himself, "Of what use is this gold to me whilst I am at home?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Now the old woman was a witch, and said to the young lady, "There is a young man coming out of the wood who carries a wonderful prize; we must get it away from him, my dear child, for it is more fit for us than for him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the old woman said, "Now is the time for getting the bird"s heart."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Well," said the old witch, "we have got the bird"s heart, but not the wishing-cloak yet, and that we must also get."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Let us leave him that," said the young lady; "he has already lost his wealth."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the witch was very angry, and said, "Such a cloak is a very rare and wonderful thing, and I must and will have it."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas! dear sir," said she, "yonder lies the granite rock where all the costly diamonds grow, and I want so much to go there, that whenever I think of it I cannot help being sorrowful, for who can reach it? only the birds and the flies--man cannot."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the old witch made a deep sleep come upon him, and he said to the young lady, "Let us sit down and rest ourselves a little, I am so tired that I cannot stand any longer."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he awoke and found that his lady had tricked him, and left him alone on the wild rock, he said, "Alas! what roguery there is in the world!" and there he sat in great grief and fear, not knowing what to do.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Now this rock belonged to fierce giants who lived upon it; and as he saw three of them striding about, he thought to himself, "I can only save myself by feigning to be asleep"; so he laid himself down as if he were in a sound sleep.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When the giants came up to him, the first pushed him with his foot, and said, "What worm is this that lies here curled up?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Tread upon him and kill him," said the second.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"It"s not worth the trouble," said the third; "let him live, he"ll go climbing higher up the mountain, and some cloud will come rolling and carry him away."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the huntsman had heard all they said; and as soon as they were gone, he climbed to the top of the mountain, and when he had sat there a short time a cloud came rolling around him, and caught him in a whirlwind and bore him along for some time, till it settled in a garden, and he fell quite gently to the ground amongst the greens and cabbages.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he looked around him, and said, "I wish I had something to eat, if not I shall be worse off than before; for here I see neither apples nor pears, nor any kind of fruits, nothing but vegetables."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he stained his face all over brown, so that even his mother would not have known him, and went into the castle and asked for a lodging; "I am so tired," said he, "that I can go no farther."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Countryman," said the witch, "who are you? and what is your business?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I have been lucky enough to find it, and have brought it with me; but the heat of the sun scorches so that it begins to wither, and I don"t know that I can carry it farther."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the witch herself took it into the kitchen to be dressed; and when it was ready she could not wait till it was carried up, but took a few leaves immediately and put them in her mouth, and scarcely were they swallowed when she lost her own form and ran braying down into the court in the form of an ass.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Now the servant-maid came into the kitchen, and seeing the salad ready, was going to carry it up; but on the way she too felt a wish to taste it as the old woman had done, and ate some leaves; so she also was turned into an ass and ran after the other, letting the dish with the salad fall on the ground.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The messenger sat all this time with the beautiful young lady, and as nobody came with the salad and she longed to taste it, she said, "I don"t know where the salad can be."
fear	fairytale_sentences	So she ate of it, and like the others ran off into the court braying away.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Now you shall be paid for your roguery," said he; and tied them all three to a rope and took them along with him till he came to a mill and knocked at the window.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"What"s the matter?" said the miller.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I have three tiresome beasts here," said the other; "if you will take them, give them food and room, and treat them as I tell you, I will pay you whatever you ask."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the huntsman said, "Give the old one stripes three times a day and hay once; give the next (who was the servant-maid) stripes once a day and hay three times; and give the youngest (who was the beautiful lady) hay three times a day and no stripes": for he could not find it in his heart to have her beaten.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Some days after, the miller came to him and told him that the old ass was dead; "The other two," said he, "are alive and eat, but are so sorrowful that they cannot last long."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the huntsman pitied them, and told the miller to drive them back to him, and when they came, he gave them some of the good salad to eat.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And the beautiful young lady fell upon her knees before him, and said, "O dearest huntsman! forgive me all the ill I have done you; my mother forced me to it, it was against my will, for I always loved you very much.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Your wishing-cloak hangs up in the closet, and as for the bird"s heart, I will give it you too."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she began to bewail her loss, and said, "Alas! if I could only get my ball again, I would give all my fine clothes and jewels, and everything that I have in the world."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Whilst she was speaking, a frog put its head out of the water, and said, "Princess, why do you weep so bitterly?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said she, "what can you do for me, you nasty frog?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	My golden ball has fallen into the spring."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
anger	fairytale_sentences	And mind the words that thou and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Open the door, my princess dear, Open the door to thy true love here!
anger	fairytale_sentences	And mind the words that thou and I said By the fountain cool, in the greenwood shade."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Behave well, Hans."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I bring nothing, I want to have something given me."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That was ill done, Hans.
anger	fairytale_sentences	You should have stuck the needle in your sleeve."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind, I"ll do better next time."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Behave well, Hans."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I bring nothing.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Where have you been?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Where is the knife, Hans?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That"s ill done, Hans, you should have put the knife in your pocket."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind, will do better next time."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Behave well, Hans."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I bring nothing, I want something given me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he gets home it is suffocated.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That was ill done, Hans, you should have put a rope round the goat"s neck."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind, will do better next time."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Behave well, Hans."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I bring nothing, I want something given me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he gets home, he has the rope in his hand, and there is no longer anything hanging on to it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I took her nothing, she gave me something."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I tied it to a rope, brought it home, dogs took it."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That was ill done, Hans, you should have carried the bacon on your head."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind, will do better next time."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Behave well, Hans."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I bring nothing, but would have something given."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Hans takes the calf, puts it on his head, and the calf kicks his face.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I took nothing, but had something given me."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I set it on my head and it kicked my face."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That was ill done, Hans, you should have led the calf, and put it in the stall."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind, will do better next time."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Behave well, Hans."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I bring nothing, but would have something given."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I took her nothing."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That was ill done, Hans, you should have cast friendly eyes on her."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Never mind, will do better."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then Gretel became angry, tore herself loose and ran away, and was no longer the bride of Hans.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	A shepherd"s dog had a master who took no care of him, but often let him suffer the greatest hunger.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last he could bear it no longer; so he took to his heels, and off he ran in a very sad and sorrowful mood.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	On the road he met a sparrow that said to him, "Why are you so sad, my friend?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Because," said the dog, "I am very very hungry, and have nothing to eat."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Now mind what I say.
anger	fairytale_sentences	This deed of thine shall cost thee all thou art worth."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow, as she alighted upon the head of one of the horses, and pecked at him till he reared up and kicked.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Unlucky wretch that I am!" cried he.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the sparrow answered, "Not wretch enough yet!" and perched on the head of the second horse, and pecked at him too.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Unlucky wretch that I am!" said he.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow; and perching upon the third horse, she began to peck him too.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The carter was mad with fury; and without looking about him, or caring what he was about, struck again at the sparrow; but killed his third horse as he done the other two.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Alas! miserable wretch that I am!" cried he.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not wretch enough yet!" answered the sparrow as she flew away; "now will I plague and punish thee at thy own house."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The carter was forced at last to leave his cart behind him, and to go home overflowing with rage and vexation.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said he to his wife, "what ill luck has befallen me! --my wine is all spilt, and my horses all three dead."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Unlucky wretch that I am!" cried the carter; for he saw that the corn was almost all gone.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not wretch enough yet!" said the sparrow; "thy cruelty shall cost thee they life yet!" and away she flew.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The carter seeing that he had thus lost all that he had, went down into his kitchen; and was still not sorry for what he had done, but sat himself angrily and sulkily in the chimney corner.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the sparrow sat on the outside of the window, and cried "Carter! thy cruelty shall cost thee thy life!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	With that he jumped up in a rage, seized his hatchet, and threw it at the sparrow; but it missed her, and only broke the window.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The sparrow now hopped in, perched upon the windowseat, and cried, "Carter! it shall cost thee thy life!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he became mad and blind with rage, and struck the window-seat with such force that he cleft it in two: and as the sparrow flew from place to place, the carter and his wife were so furious, that they broke all their furniture, glasses, chairs, benches, the table, and at last the walls, without touching the bird at all.
anger	fairytale_sentences	In the end, however, they caught her: and the wife said, "Shall I kill her at once?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the sparrow began to flutter about, and stretch out her neck and cried, "Carter! it shall cost thee thy life yet!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	With that he could wait no longer: so he gave his wife the hatchet, and cried, "Wife, strike at the bird and kill her in my hand."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Fundevogel and Lina loved each other so dearly that when they did not see each other they were sad.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then Lina said to Fundevogel: "If you will never leave me, I too will never leave you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then said Lina: "Then will I tell you.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Last night, old Sanna carried so many buckets of water into the house that I asked her why she was doing that, and she said that if I would promise not to tell anyone, and she said that early tomorrow morning when father was out hunting, she would set the kettle full of water, throw you into it and boil you; but we will get up quickly, dress ourselves, and go away together."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she was terribly alarmed, and she said to herself: "What shall I say now when the forester comes home and sees that the children are gone?
fear	fairytale_sentences	They must be followed instantly to get them back again."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the cook sent three servants after them, who were to run and overtake the children.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The children, however, were sitting outside the forest, and when they saw from afar the three servants running, Lina said to Fundevogel: "Never leave me, and I will never leave you."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the old cook scolded and said: "You simpletons, you should have cut the rose-bush in two, and have broken off the rose and brought it home with you; go, and do it at once."
fear	fairytale_sentences	When they got home, the cook asked if they had not found them; so they said no, they had found nothing but a church, and there was a chandelier in it.
anger	fairytale_sentences	And the cook scolded them and said: "You fools! why did you not pull the church to pieces, and bring the chandelier home with you?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	The children, however, saw from afar that the three servants were coming, and the cook waddling after them.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	There was once a very old man, whose eyes had become dim, his ears dull of hearing, his knees trembled, and when he sat at table he could hardly hold the spoon, and spilt the broth upon the table-cloth or let it run out of his mouth.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And he used to look towards the table with his eyes full of tears.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Once, too, his trembling hands could not hold the bowl, and it fell to the ground and broke.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The young wife scolded him, but he said nothing and only sighed.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then they brought him a wooden bowl for a few half-pence, out of which he had to eat.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I am making a little trough," answered the child, "for father and mother to eat out of when I am big."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The man and his wife looked at each other for a while, and presently began to cry.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Now this king and queen had plenty of money, and plenty of fine clothes to wear, and plenty of good things to eat and drink, and a coach to ride out in every day: but though they had been married many years they had no children, and this grieved them very much indeed.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Just as eleven of them had done blessing her, a great noise was heard in the courtyard, and word was brought that the thirteenth fairy was come, with a black cap on her head, and black shoes on her feet, and a broomstick in her hand: and presently up she came into the dininghall.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Now, as she had not been asked to the feast she was very angry, and scolded the king and queen very much, and set to work to take her revenge.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So she cried out, "The king"s daughter shall, in her fifteenth year, be wounded by a spindle, and fall down dead."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the twelfth of the friendly fairies, who had not yet given her gift, came forward, and said that the evil wish must be fulfilled, but that she could soften its mischief; so her gift was, that the king"s daughter, when the spindle wounded her, should not really die, but should only fall asleep for a hundred years.
fear	fairytale_sentences	However, the king hoped still to save his dear child altogether from the threatened evil; so he ordered that all the spindles in the kingdom should be bought up and burnt.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But scarcely had she touched it, before the fairy"s prophecy was fulfilled; the spindle wounded her, and she fell down lifeless on the ground.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	This, however, none of them could ever do; for the thorns and bushes laid hold of them, as it were with hands; and there they stuck fast, and died wretchedly.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The old man tried to hinder him, but he was bent upon going.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh dear me, I should like to buy very much, but I have no money: if you had any use for yellow buttons, I might deal with you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Go into the garden and dig where I tell you, and you will find the yellow buttons: I dare not go myself."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, see now," said she, "how they have bruised and wounded those poor trees; they will never get well."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So she took pity on them, and made use of the butter to grease them all, so that the wheels might not hurt them so much.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But she said she supposed that they knew the road, and would follow her, and she could not stay there all day waiting for them.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What a goose you are to do such silly things!" said the husband.
anger	fairytale_sentences	They ate the dry bread together; and Frederick said, "Kate, I hope you locked the door safe when you came away."
anger	fairytale_sentences	I sent you to make the house fast, and you take the door away, so that everybody may go in and out as they please--however, as you have brought the door, you shall carry it about with you for your pains."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Catherine, who had the door on her shoulder, began to be very tired; but she thought it was the nuts upon it that were so heavy: so she said softly, "Frederick, I must let the nuts go."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Well, then, make haste and throw them down, if you will."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	A little while after, Catherine thought the door was still very heavy: so she whispered to Frederick, "I must throw the vinegar down."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last it popped into Catherine"s head that it was the door itself that was so heavy all the time: so she whispered, "Frederick, I must throw the door down soon."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Here goes, however," said she: and down went the door with such a clatter upon the thieves, that they cried out "Murder!" and not knowing what was coming, ran away as fast as they could, and left all the gold.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the princess came in, and as she passed by them she had something spiteful to say to every one.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The next was too tall: "What a maypole!" said she.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the old king was very angry when he saw how his daughter behaved, and how she ill-treated all his guests; and he vowed that, willing or unwilling, she should marry the first man, be he prince or beggar, that came to the door.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So words and tears were of no avail; the parson was sent for, and she was married to the fiddler.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When this was over the king said, "Now get ready to go--you must not stay here--you must travel on with your husband."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Pray," said she, "whose is this wood?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"It belongs to King Grisly-beard," answered he; "hadst thou taken him, all had been thine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!" sighed she; "would that I had married King Grisly-beard!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"They belong to King Grisly-beard, hadst thou taken him, they had all been thine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Ah! unlucky wretch that I am!" said she; "would that I had married King Grisly-beard!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"It belongs to King Grisly-beard; hadst thou taken him, it had all been thine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Ah! wretch that I am!" sighed she; "why did I not marry King Grisly-beard?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That is no business of mine," said the fiddler: "why should you wish for another husband?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Am not I good enough for you?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	Now make the fire, and put on water and cook my supper, for I am very tired."
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the princess knew nothing of making fires and cooking, and the fiddler was forced to help her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When they had eaten a very scanty meal they went to bed; but the fiddler called her up very early in the morning to clean the house.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Thus they lived for two days: and when they had eaten up all there was in the cottage, the man said, "Wife, we can"t go on thus, spending money and earning nothing.
anger	fairytale_sentences	You must learn to weave baskets."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he went out and cut willows, and brought them home, and she began to weave; but it made her fingers very sore.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I see this work won"t do," said he: "try and spin; perhaps you will do that better."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So she sat down and tried to spin; but the threads cut her tender fingers till the blood ran.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"See now," said the fiddler, "you are good for nothing; you can do no work: what a bargain I have got!
anger	fairytale_sentences	However, I"ll try and set up a trade in pots and pans, and you shall stand in the market and sell them."
anger	fairytale_sentences	But her husband did not care for that, and said she must work, if she did not wish to die of hunger.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They lived on this as long as it lasted; and then her husband bought a fresh lot of ware, and she sat herself down with it in the corner of the market; but a drunken soldier soon came by, and rode his horse against her stall, and broke all her goods into a thousand pieces.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she began to cry, and knew not what to do.
fear	fairytale_sentences	So she ran home and told him all.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Who would have thought you would have been so silly," said he, "as to put an earthenware stall in the corner of the market, where everybody passes? but let us have no more crying; I see you are not fit for this sort of work, so I have been to the king"s palace, and asked if they did not want a kitchen-maid; and they say they will take you, and there you will have plenty to eat."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thus the princess became a kitchen-maid, and helped the cook to do all the dirtiest work; but she was allowed to carry home some of the meat that was left, and on this they lived.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she bitterly grieved for the pride and folly which had brought her so low.
fear	fairytale_sentences	All on a sudden, as she was going out, in came the king"s son in golden clothes; and when he saw a beautiful woman at the door, he took her by the hand, and said she should be his partner in the dance; but she trembled for fear, for she saw that it was King Grisly-beard, who was making sport of her.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She sprang to the door to run away; but on the steps King Grisly-beard overtook her, and brought her back and said, "Fear me not!
anger	fairytale_sentences	The stepdaughter once had a pretty apron, which the other fancied so much that she became envious, and told her mother that she must and would have that apron.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Be quiet, my child," said the old woman, "and you shall have it.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Your stepsister has long deserved death; tonight when she is asleep I will come and cut her head off.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Only be careful that you are at the far side of the bed, and push her well to the front."
fear	fairytale_sentences	It would have been all over with the poor girl if she had not just then been standing in a corner, and heard everything.
fear	fairytale_sentences	All day long she dared not go out of doors, and when bedtime had come, the witch"s daughter got into bed first, so as to lie at the far side, but when she was asleep, the other pushed her gently to the front, and took for herself the place at the back, close by the wall.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In the night, the old woman came creeping in, she held an axe in her right hand, and felt with her left to see if anyone were lying at the outside, and then she grasped the axe with both hands, and cut her own child"s head off.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When she had gone away, the girl got up and went to her sweetheart, who was called Roland, and knocked at his door.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When he came out, she said to him: "Listen, dearest Roland, we must fly in all haste; my stepmother wanted to kill me, but has struck her own child.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When daylight comes, and she sees what she has done, we shall be lost."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"But," said Roland, "I counsel you first to take away her magic wand, or we cannot escape if she pursues us."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The maiden fetched the magic wand, and she took the dead girl"s head and dropped three drops of blood on the ground, one in front of the bed, one in the kitchen, and one on the stairs.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she hurried away with her lover.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She went into the kitchen, but found no one.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she cried again: "Where are you?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	What did she see there?
anger	fairytale_sentences	The witch fell into a passion, sprang to the window, and as she could look forth quite far into the world, she perceived her stepdaughter hurrying away with her sweetheart Roland.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That shall not help you," cried she, "even if you have got a long way off, you shall still not escape me."
anger	fairytale_sentences	She put on her many-league boots, in which she covered an hour"s walk at every step, and it was not long before she overtook them.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The girl, however, when she saw the old woman striding towards her, changed, with her magic wand, her sweetheart Roland into a lake, and herself into a duck swimming in the middle of it.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The witch placed herself on the shore, threw breadcrumbs in, and went to endless trouble to entice the duck; but the duck did not let herself be enticed, and the old woman had to go home at night as she had come.
fear	fairytale_sentences	At this the girl and her sweetheart Roland resumed their natural shapes again, and they walked on the whole night until daybreak.
anger	fairytale_sentences	It was not long before the witch came striding up towards them, and said to the musician: "Dear musician, may I pluck that beautiful flower for myself?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	As she was hastily creeping into the hedge and was just going to pluck the flower, knowing perfectly well who the flower was, he began to play, and whether she would or not, she was forced to dance, for it was a magical dance.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The faster he played, the more violent springs was she forced to make, and the thorns tore her clothes from her body, and pricked her and wounded her till she bled, and as he did not stop, she had to dance till she lay dead on the ground.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The poor girl remained there a long time, but at length, as he did not return at all, she was sad, and changed herself into a flower, and thought: "Someone will surely come this way, and trample me down."
fear	fairytale_sentences	From that time forth, strange things happened in the shepherd"s house.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He was certainly pleased with this good attendance, but still at last he was so afraid that he went to a wise woman and asked for her advice.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The shepherd did as she bade him, and next morning just as day dawned, he saw the chest open, and the flower come out.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Swiftly he sprang towards it, and threw a white cloth over it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Nevertheless, she promised not to go away, but to continue keeping house for the shepherd.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the faithful maiden heard of this, she grew so sad that she thought her heart would break, and she would not go thither, but the other girls came and took her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When it came to her turn to sing, she stepped back, until at last she was the only one left, and then she could not refuse.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	There was a man who had three sons, the youngest of whom was called Dummling,[*] and was despised, mocked, and sneered at on every occasion.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he entered the forest he met a little grey-haired old man who bade him good day, and said: "Do give me a piece of cake out of your pocket, and let me have a draught of your wine; I am so hungry and thirsty."
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the clever son answered: "If I give you my cake and wine, I shall have none for myself; be off with you," and he left the little man standing and went on.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But when he began to hew down a tree, it was not long before he made a false stroke, and the axe cut him in the arm, so that he had to go home and have it bound up.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The little old grey man met him likewise, and asked him for a piece of cake and a drink of wine.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the second son, too, said sensibly enough: "What I give you will be taken away from myself; be off!" and he left the little man standing and went on.
fear	fairytale_sentences	His punishment, however, was not delayed; when he had made a few blows at the tree he struck himself in the leg, so that he had to be carried home.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then Dummling said: "Father, do let me go and cut wood."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The father answered: "Your brothers have hurt themselves with it, leave it alone, you do not understand anything about it."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But Dummling begged so long that at last he said: "Just go then, you will get wiser by hurting yourself."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he came to the forest the little old grey man met him likewise, and greeting him, said: "Give me a piece of your cake and a drink out of your bottle; I am so hungry and thirsty."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Dummling answered: "I have only cinder-cake and sour beer; if that pleases you, we will sit down and eat."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But she did not understand why she was to keep away.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"The others are there," she thought, "I may as well be there too," and ran to them; but as soon as she had touched her sister, she remained sticking fast to her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So they had to spend the night with the goose.
fear	fairytale_sentences	They were obliged to run after him continually, now left, now right, wherever his legs took him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	In the middle of the fields the parson met them, and when he saw the procession he said: "For shame, you good-for-nothing girls, why are you running across the fields after this young man?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Is that seemly?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Whilst the five were trotting thus one behind the other, two labourers came with their hoes from the fields; the parson called out to them and begged that they would set him and the sexton free.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon Dummling asked to have her for his wife; but the king did not like the son-inlaw, and made all manner of excuses and said he must first produce a man who could drink a cellarful of wine.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Dummling asked him what he was taking to heart so sorely, and he answered: "I have such a great thirst and cannot quench it; cold water I cannot stand, a barrel of wine I have just emptied, but that to me is like a drop on a hot stone!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then Dummling asked once more for his bride, but the king was vexed that such an ugly fellow, whom everyone called Dummling, should take away his daughter, and he made a new condition; he must first find a man who could eat a whole mountain of bread.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Dummling did not think long, but went straight into the forest, where in the same place there sat a man who was tying up his body with a strap, and making an awful face, and saying: "I have eaten a whole ovenful of rolls, but what good is that when one has such a hunger as I?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	My stomach remains empty, and I must tie myself up if I am not to die of hunger."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then Dummling for the third time asked for his bride; but the king again sought a way out, and ordered a ship which could sail on land and on water.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"As soon as you come sailing back in it," said he, "you shall have my daughter for wife."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he gave him the ship which could sail on land and water, and when the king saw that, he could no longer prevent him from having his daughter.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The wife of a rich man fell sick; and when she felt that her end drew nigh, she called her only daughter to her bed-side, and said, "Always be a good girl, and I will look down from heaven and watch over you."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Soon afterwards she shut her eyes and died, and was buried in the garden; and the little girl went every day to her grave and wept, and was always good and kind to all about her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	This new wife had two daughters of her own, that she brought home with her; they were fair in face but foul at heart, and it was now a sorry time for the poor little girl.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Besides that, the sisters plagued her in all sorts of ways, and laughed at her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she took it, and went to her mother"s grave and planted it there; and cried so much that it was watered with her tears; and there it grew and became a fine tree.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she did as she was told; but when all was done she could not help crying, for she thought to herself, she should so have liked to have gone with them to the ball; and at last she begged her mother very hard to let her go.
anger	fairytale_sentences	And when she kept on begging, she said at last, to get rid of her, "I will throw this dishful of peas into the ash-heap, and if in two hours" time you have picked them all out, you shall go to the feast too."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she threw the peas down among the ashes, but the little maiden ran out at the back door into the garden, and cried out:
fear	fairytale_sentences	One and all come help me, quick!
fear	fairytale_sentences	Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the mother said, "No, no! you slut, you have no clothes, and cannot dance; you shall not go."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the little maiden went out into the garden at the back of the house, and cried out as before:
fear	fairytale_sentences	Blackbird, thrush, and chaffinch gay, Hither, hither, haste away!
fear	fairytale_sentences	One and all come help me, quick!
fear	fairytale_sentences	Haste ye, haste ye!--pick, pick, pick!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Now when all were gone, and nobody left at home, Ashputtel went sorrowfully and sat down under the hazel-tree, and cried out:
fear	fairytale_sentences	When night came she wanted to go home; and the king"s son would go with her, and said to himself, "I will not lose her this time"; but, however, she again slipped away from him, though in such a hurry that she dropped her left golden slipper upon the stairs.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the mother gave her a knife, and said, "Never mind, cut it off; when you are queen you will not care about toes; you will not want to walk."
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the mother and both the sisters were frightened, and turned pale with anger as he took Ashputtel on his horse, and rode away with her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"How lonely it is, wife," said he, as he puffed out a long curl of smoke, "for you and me to sit here by ourselves, without any children to play about and amuse us while other people seem so happy and merry with their children!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"What you say is very true," said the wife, sighing, and turning round her wheel; "how happy should I be if I had but one child!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If it were ever so small--nay, if it were no bigger than my thumb--I should be very happy, and love it dearly."
anger	fairytale_sentences	One day, as the woodman was getting ready to go into the wood to cut fuel, he said, "I wish I had someone to bring the cart after me, for I want to make haste."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So they did as he wished; and when Tom had taken leave of his father they took him away with them.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But Tom ran about amongst the furrows, and at last slipped into an old mouse-hole.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then they ran at once to the place, and poked the ends of their sticks into the mouse-hole, but all in vain; Tom only crawled farther and farther in; and at last it became quite dark, so that they were forced to go their way without their prize, as sulky as could be.
fear	fairytale_sentences	If I were to fall from one of these great clods, I should undoubtedly break my neck."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"What noise was that?" said the thief, frightened; "I"m sure I heard someone speak."
fear	fairytale_sentences	They stood still listening, and Tom said, "Take me with you, and I"ll soon show you how to get the parson"s money."
fear	fairytale_sentences	At this the thieves were frightened, and said, "Softly, softly!
fear	fairytale_sentences	Speak low, that you may not awaken anybody."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Meantime the thieves were frightened, and ran off a little way; but at last they plucked up their hearts, and said, "The little urchin is only trying to make fools of us."
anger	fairytale_sentences	So they came back and whispered softly to him, saying, "Now let us have no more of your roguish jokes; but throw us out some of the money."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The thieves ran off as if a wolf was at their tails: and the maid, having groped about and found nothing, went away for a light.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But he soon found out where he really was; and was forced to have all his wits about him, that he might not get between the cow"s teeth, and so be crushed to death.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"It is rather dark," said he; "they forgot to build windows in this room to let the sun in; a candle would be no bad thing."
fear	fairytale_sentences	At last he cried out as loud as he could, "Don"t bring me any more hay!
fear	fairytale_sentences	Don"t bring me any more hay!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	The maid happened to be just then milking the cow; and hearing someone speak, but seeing nobody, and yet being quite sure it was the same voice that she had heard in the night, she was so frightened that she fell off her stool, and overset the milk-pail.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the parson said, "Woman, thou art surely mad!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Scarcely had they set foot on the threshold, when Tom called out, "Don"t bring me any more hay!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the parson himself was frightened; and thinking the cow was surely bewitched, told his man to kill her on the spot.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Will you be easy?" said the wolf; "you"ll awaken everybody in the house if you make such a clatter."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The woodman and his wife, being awakened by the noise, peeped through a crack in the door; but when they saw a wolf was there, you may well suppose that they were sadly frightened; and the woodman ran for his axe, and gave his wife a scythe.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Do you stay behind," said the woodman, "and when I have knocked him on the head you must rip him up with the scythe."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The two elder brothers would have pulled it down, in order to see how the poor ants in their fright would run about and carry off their eggs.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At last came the little dwarf"s turn; and he looked in the moss; but it was so hard to find the pearls, and the job was so tiresome!--so he sat down upon a stone and cried.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"But we must make a provision for winter, or else we shall suffer from hunger," said the cat; "and you, little mouse, cannot venture everywhere, or you will be caught in a trap some day."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Top off!" said the cat quite coolly.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What does that matter," said the cat, "it is no worse than Crumb-stealer, as your godchildren are called."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Topoff!
fear	fairytale_sentences	Half-done!" answered the mouse, "they are such odd names, they make me very thoughtful."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	During the cat"s absence the mouse cleaned the house, and put it in order, but the greedy cat entirely emptied the pot of fat.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	You have devoured all when you were standing godmother.
anger	fairytale_sentences	First top off, then half-done, then--" "Will you hold your tongue," cried the cat, "one word more, and I will eat you too."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"All-gone" was already on the poor mouse"s lips; scarcely had she spoken it before the cat sprang on her, seized her, and swallowed her down.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They loved each other dearly, but sorrowed much that they had no children.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So greatly did they desire to have one, that the wife prayed for it day and night, but still they remained childless.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Presently the fruit became round and firm, and she was glad and at peace; but when they were fully ripe she picked the berries and ate eagerly of them, and then she grew sad and ill.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	A little while later she called her husband, and said to him, weeping.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"If I die, bury me under the juniper-tree."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Her husband buried her under the juniper-tree, and wept bitterly for her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	By degrees, however, his sorrow grew less, and although at times he still grieved over his loss, he was able to go about as usual, and later on he married again.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The mother loved her daughter very much, and when she looked at her and then looked at the boy, it pierced her heart to think that he would always stand in the way of her own child, and she was continually thinking how she could get the whole of the property for her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	This evil thought took possession of her more and more, and made her behave very unkindly to the boy.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She drove him from place to place with cuffings and buffetings, so that the poor child went about in fear, and had no peace from the time he left school to the time he went back.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The mother was angry at this, but she answered, "Yes, when he comes out of school."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Just then she looked out of the window and saw him coming, and it seemed as if an evil spirit entered into her, for she snatched the apple out of her little daughter"s hand, and said, "You shall not have one before your brother."
anger	fairytale_sentences	She threw the apple into the chest and shut it to.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The little boy now came in, and the evil spirit in the wife made her say kindly to him, "My son, will you have an apple?" but she gave him a wicked look.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Mother," said the boy, "how dreadful you look!
anger	fairytale_sentences	The thought came to her that she would kill him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she was overwhelmed with fear at the thought of what she had done.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"If only I can prevent anyone knowing that I did it," she thought.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Soon after this, little Marleen came up to her mother who was stirring a pot of boiling water over the fire, and said, "Mother, brother is sitting by the door with an apple in his hand, and he looks so pale; and when I asked him to give me the apple, he did not answer, and that frightened me."
fear	fairytale_sentences	She was so terrified at this, that she ran crying and screaming to her mother.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Oh!" she said, "I have knocked off brother"s head," and then she wept and wept, and nothing would stop her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What have you done!" said her mother, "but no one must know about it, so you must keep silence; what is done can"t be undone; we will make him into puddings."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But Marleen stood looking on, and wept and wept, and her tears fell into the pot, so that there was no need of salt.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The mother said nothing, but gave him a large dish of black pudding, and Marleen still wept without ceasing.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What has he gone there for, and he never even said goodbye to me!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Little Marleen went upstairs and took her best silk handkerchief out of her bottom drawer, and in it she wrapped all the bones from under the table and carried them outside, and all the time she did nothing but weep.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Only sing me that again."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"And I," said the mother, "I feel so uneasy, as if a heavy thunderstorm were coming."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But little Marleen sat and wept and wept.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the wife, "and I am so full of distress and uneasiness that my teeth chatter, and I feel as if there were a fire in my veins," and she tore open her dress; and all the while little Marleen sat in the corner and wept, and the plate on her knees was wet with her tears.
fear	fairytale_sentences	the mother shut her eyes and her ears, that she might see and hear nothing, but there was a roaring sound in her ears like that of a violent storm, and in her eyes a burning and flashing like lightning:
sadness	fairytale_sentences	then little Marleen laid her head down on her knees and sobbed.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, do not go!" cried the wife.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"I feel as if the whole house were in flames!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the wife was in such fear and trouble, that she fell on the floor, and her cap fell from her head.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Ah me!" cried the wife, "if I were but a thousand feet beneath the earth, that I might not hear that song."
fear	fairytale_sentences	then the woman fell down again as if dead.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Then I will go out too," she said, "and see if it will lighten my misery, for I feel as if the world were coming to an end."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But this beautiful queen fell ill, and when she felt that her end drew near she called the king to her and said, "Promise me that you will never marry again, unless you meet with a wife who is as beautiful as I am, and who has golden hair like mine."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then when the king in his grief promised all she asked, she shut her eyes and died.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the king was not to be comforted, and for a long time never thought of taking another wife.
anger	fairytale_sentences	At last, however, his wise men said, "this will not do; the king must marry again, that we may have a queen."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So the messengers came home, and had had all their trouble for nothing.
anger	fairytale_sentences	She is the very image of my dead wife: unless I have her, I shall not find any bride upon the whole earth, and you say there must be a queen."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she threw herself upon Heaven for help in her need, and went away, and journeyed on the whole night, till at last she came to a large wood.
fear	fairytale_sentences	So the huntsmen took it up, and the maiden awoke and was greatly frightened, and said, "I am a poor child that has neither father nor mother left; have pity on me and take me with you."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then they showed her a little corner under the staircase, where no light of day ever peeped in, and said, "Cat-skin, you may lie and sleep there."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Thus Cat-skin lived for a long time very sorrowfully.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Ah! pretty princess!" thought she, "what will now become of thee?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	When she went into the kitchen to her work, and began to rake the ashes, the cook said, "Let that alone till the morning, and heat the king"s soup; I should like to run up now and give a peep: but take care you don"t let a hair fall into it, or you will run a chance of never eating again."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The cook was frightened when he heard the order, and said to Cat-skin, "You must have let a hair fall into the soup; if it be so, you will have a good beating."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I am a poor child," said she, "that has lost both father and mother."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You must be a witch, Catskin," said the cook; "for you always put something into your soup, so that it pleases the king better than mine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	While this was passing, a duck came quacking up and cried out, "You thieving vagabonds, what business have you in my grounds?
anger	fairytale_sentences	I"ll give it you well for your insolence!" and upon that she fell upon Chanticleer most lustily.
anger	fairytale_sentences	He now flew into a very great passion, and, suspecting the company who had come in the night before, he went to look after them, but they were all off; so he swore that he never again would take in such a troop of vagabonds, who ate a great deal, paid no reckoning, and gave him nothing for his trouble but their apish tricks.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Take care of this handsome coach of mine, Nor dirty my pretty red wheels so fine!
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he was very angry, and went without his supper to bed; but when he laid his head on the pillow, the pin ran into his cheek: at this he became quite furious, and, jumping up, would have run out of the house; but when he came to the door, the millstone fell down on his head, and killed him on the spot.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she was in a great fright, and cried out to Chanticleer, "Pray run as fast as you can, and fetch me some water, or I shall be choked."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Chanticleer ran as fast as he could to the river, and said, "River, give me some water, for Partlet lies in the mountain, and will be choked by a great nut."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then Chanticleer was very sorry, and cried bitterly; and all the beasts came and wept with him over poor Partlet.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then a stone, who saw what had happened, came up and kindly offered to help poor Chanticleer by laying himself across the stream; and this time he got safely to the other side with the hearse, and managed to get Partlet out of it; but the fox and the other mourners, who were sitting behind, were too heavy, and fell back into the water and were all carried away by the stream and drowned.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he sat down by the grave, and wept and mourned, till at last he died too; and so all were dead.
anger	fairytale_sentences	How many arts do you understand?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I understand but one," replied the cat, modestly.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What art is that?" asked the fox.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Is that all?" said the fox.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Just then came a hunter with four dogs.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The cat sprang nimbly up a tree, and sat down at the top of it, where the branches and foliage quite concealed her.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Open your sack, Mr Fox, open your sack," cried the cat to him, but the dogs had already seized him, and were holding him fast.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Had you been able to climb like me, you would not have lost your life."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The frame of the window was made of fine black ebony, and as she sat looking out upon the snow, she pricked her finger, and three drops of blood fell upon it.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she gazed thoughtfully upon the red drops that sprinkled the white snow, and said, "Would that my little daughter may be as white as that snow, as red as that blood, and as black as this ebony windowframe!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Thou, queen, art fair, and beauteous to see, But Snowdrop is lovelier far than thee!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	When she heard this she turned pale with rage and envy, and called to one of her servants, and said, "Take Snowdrop away into the wide wood, that I may never see her any more."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the servant led her away; but his heart melted when Snowdrop begged him to spare her life, and he said, "I will not hurt you, thou pretty child."
fear	fairytale_sentences	So he left her by herself; and though he thought it most likely that the wild beasts would tear her in pieces, he felt as if a great weight were taken off his heart when he had made up his mind not to kill her but to leave her to her fate, with the chance of someone finding and saving her.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then poor Snowdrop wandered along through the wood in great fear; and the wild beasts roared about her, but none did her any harm.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In the evening she came to a cottage among the hills, and went in to rest, for her little feet would carry her no further.
fear	fairytale_sentences	By and by in came the masters of the cottage.
fear	fairytale_sentences	They lighted up their seven lamps, and saw at once that all was not right.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The first said, "Who has been sitting on my stool?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The second, "Who has been eating off my plate?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The third, "Who has been picking my bread?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The fourth, "Who has been meddling with my spoon?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The fifth, "Who has been handling my fork?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The sixth, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The seventh, "Who has been drinking my wine?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the first looked round and said, "Who has been lying on my bed?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	And the rest came running to him, and everyone cried out that somebody had been upon his bed.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In the morning Snowdrop told them all her story; and they pitied her, and said if she would keep all things in order, and cook and wash and knit and spin for them, she might stay where she was, and they would take good care of her.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then they went out all day long to their work, seeking for gold and silver in the mountains: but Snowdrop was left at home; and they warned her, and said, "The queen will soon find out where you are, so take care and let no one in."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the queen, now that she thought Snowdrop was dead, believed that she must be the handsomest lady in the land; and she went to her glass and said:
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Thou, queen, art the fairest in all this land: But over the hills, in the greenwood shade, Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made, There Snowdrop is hiding her head; and she Is lovelier far, O queen! than thee."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the queen was very much frightened; for she knew that the glass always spoke the truth, and was sure that the servant had betrayed her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	And she could not bear to think that anyone lived who was more beautiful than she was; so she dressed herself up as an old pedlar, and went her way over the hills, to the place where the dwarfs dwelt.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"There"s an end to all thy beauty," said the spiteful queen, and went away home.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	In the evening the seven dwarfs came home; and I need not say how grieved they were to see their faithful Snowdrop stretched out upon the ground, as if she was quite dead.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then they said, "The old woman was the queen herself; take care another time, and let no one in when we are away."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Thou, queen, art the fairest in all this land: But over the hills, in the greenwood shade, Where the seven dwarfs their dwelling have made, There Snowdrop is hiding her head; and she Is lovelier far, O queen! than thee."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the blood ran cold in her heart with spite and malice, to see that Snowdrop still lived; and she dressed herself up again, but in quite another dress from the one she wore before, and took with her a poisoned comb.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When she reached the dwarfs" cottage, she knocked at the door, and cried, "Fine wares to sell!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	But Snowdrop said, "I dare not let anyone in."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But by good luck the dwarfs came in very early that evening; and when they saw Snowdrop lying on the ground, they thought what had happened, and soon found the poisoned comb.
fear	fairytale_sentences	And when they took it away she got well, and told them all that had passed; and they warned her once more not to open the door to anyone.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Meantime the queen went home to her glass, and shook with rage when she read the very same answer as before; and she said, "Snowdrop shall die, if it cost me my life."
anger	fairytale_sentences	So she went by herself into her chamber, and got ready a poisoned apple: the outside looked very rosy and tempting, but whoever tasted it was sure to die.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she dressed herself up as a peasant"s wife, and travelled over the hills to the dwarfs" cottage, and knocked at the door; but Snowdrop put her head out of the window and said, "I dare not let anyone in, for the dwarfs have told me not."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Do as you please," said the old woman, "but at any rate take this pretty apple; I will give it you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"No," said Snowdrop, "I dare not take it."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You silly girl!" answered the other, "what are you afraid of?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Do you think it is poisoned?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Come! do you eat one part, and I will eat the other."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Now the apple was so made up that one side was good, though the other side was poisoned.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then Snowdrop was much tempted to taste, for the apple looked so very nice; and when she saw the old woman eat, she could wait no longer.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But she had scarcely put the piece into her mouth, when she fell down dead upon the ground.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When evening came, and the dwarfs had gone home, they found Snowdrop lying on the ground: no breath came from her lips, and they were afraid that she was quite dead.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They lifted her up, and combed her hair, and washed her face with wine and water; but all was in vain, for the little girl seemed quite dead.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So they laid her down upon a bier, and all seven watched and bewailed her three whole days; and then they thought they would bury her: but her cheeks were still rosy; and her face looked just as it did while she was alive; so they said, "We will never bury her in the cold ground."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And they made a coffin of glass, so that they might still look at her, and wrote upon it in golden letters what her name was, and that she was a king"s daughter.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And the coffin was set among the hills, and one of the dwarfs always sat by it and watched.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And the birds of the air came too, and bemoaned Snowdrop; and first of all came an owl, and then a raven, and at last a dove, and sat by her side.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he offered the dwarfs money, and prayed and besought them to let him take her away; but they said, "We will not part with her for all the gold in the world."
anger	fairytale_sentences	When she heard this she started with rage; but her envy and curiosity were so great, that she could not help setting out to see the bride.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I would rather go away and see how I can earn my bread."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So the father gave him his blessing, and with great sorrow took leave of him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	And when he came before the enemy, there was a battle, and great danger, and it rained shot until his comrades fell on all sides, and when the leader also was killed, those left were about to take flight, but the youth stepped forth, spoke boldly to them, and cried, "We will not let our fatherland be ruined!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	And as she lay there dead, the young King remembered what he had been obliged to promise, and was horrified at having to lie down alive in the grave, but there was no escape.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And now he sat there full of pain and grief, ate every day only a little piece of bread, drank only a mouthful of wine, and nevertheless saw death daily drawing nearer.
anger	fairytale_sentences	And as he thought it came to gnaw at it, he drew his sword and said, "As long as I live, thou shalt not touch her," and hewed the snake in three pieces.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, dear father," she replied, "I come home again in great grief; during the voyage, my husband became suddenly ill and died, and if the good skipper had not given me his help, it would have gone ill with me.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	He was present at his death, and can tell you all."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The fisherman did not much like the business: however, he went to the seashore; and when he came back there the water looked all yellow and green.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the fisherman, "she says that when I had caught you, I ought to have asked you for something before I let you go; she does not like living any longer in the pigsty, and wants a snug little cottage."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Nonsense!" said the wife; "he will do it very willingly, I know; go along and try!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah!" said the man, dolefully, "my wife wants to live in a stone castle."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Husband," said she, "say no more about it, but go and try!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So the man went away quite sorrowful to think that his wife should want to be king.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said the poor man, "my wife wants to be king."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas, wife! why should you wish to be emperor?" said the fisherman.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I am king," said Ilsabill, "and you are my slave; so go at once!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	So the fisherman was forced to go; and he muttered as he went along, "This will come to no good, it is too much to ask; the fish will be tired at last, and then we shall be sorry for what we have done."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"O wife, wife!" said he, "how can you be pope? there is but one pope at a time in Christendom."
fear	fairytale_sentences	At this sight the fisherman was dreadfully frightened, and he trembled so that his knees knocked together: but still he went down near to the shore, and said:
anger	fairytale_sentences	At this thought she was very angry, and wakened her husband, and said, "Husband, go to the fish and tell him I must be lord of the sun and moon."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The fisherman was half asleep, but the thought frightened him so much that he started and fell out of bed.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Alas, wife!" said he, "cannot you be easy with being pope?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"No," said she, "I am very uneasy as long as the sun and moon rise without my leave.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Go to the fish at once!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the man went shivering with fear; and as he was going down to the shore a dreadful storm arose, so that the trees and the very rocks shook.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the two sisters said to each other that they would throw the beautiful boy into the water.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When the two heard that, they were frightened to death, and ran away in great haste.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the King grew angry, and ordered his wife to be cast into prison, and therein was she shut up for many long years.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Hereupon he was much troubled, and asked the old fisherman if that was true?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And now there was no one at home but the daughter, and she mourned for her brothers so much that at last she also begged the fisherman to let her set forth, for she wished to go in search of her brothers.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, no one."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then they were all terrified, and the King took the bird, the fisherman and the three children back with him to the castle, and ordered the prison to be opened and brought his wife out again.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She had, however, grown quite ill and weak.
anger	fairytale_sentences	One day he said to himself, "What shall I do with it? if I sell it, it will bring no more than another; and for eating, the little turnips are better than this; the best thing perhaps is to carry it and give it to the king as a mark of respect."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, no!" answered the gardener, "I am no child of fortune; I am a poor soldier, who never could get enough to live upon; so I laid aside my red coat, and set to work, tilling the ground.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I have a brother, who is rich, and your majesty knows him well, and all the world knows him; but because I am poor, everybody forgets me."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The king then took pity on him, and said, "You shall be poor no longer.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When the brother heard of all this, and how a turnip had made the gardener so rich, he envied him sorely, and bethought himself how he could contrive to get the same good fortune for himself.
anger	fairytale_sentences	However, he determined to manage more cleverly than his brother, and got together a rich present of gold and fine horses for the king; and thought he must have a much larger gift in return; for if his brother had received so much for only a turnip, what must his present be wroth?
anger	fairytale_sentences	When he reached home, he knew not upon whom to vent his rage and spite; and at length wicked thoughts came into his head, and he resolved to kill his brother.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But whilst they were getting all ready, they heard the trampling of a horse at a distance, which so frightened them that they pushed their prisoner neck and shoulders together into a sack, and swung him up by a cord to the tree, where they left him dangling, and ran away.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Meantime he worked and worked away, till he made a hole large enough to put out his head.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So the student sat himself down and waited a while; but the time hung heavy upon him, and he begged earnestly that he might ascend forthwith, for his thirst for knowledge was great.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She walked over the meadow, and presently she came upon a baker"s oven full of bread, and the loaves cried out to her, "Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Shake me, shake me, I pray," cried the tree; "my apples, one and all, are ripe."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The next thing she came to was a little house, and there she saw an old woman looking out, with such large teeth, that she was terrified, and turned to run away.
fear	fairytale_sentences	You must be very careful, however, to make my bed in the right way, for I wish you always to shake it thoroughly, so that the feathers fly about; then they say, down there in the world, that it is snowing; for I am Mother Holle."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	So she stayed on with Mother Holle for some time, and then she began to grow unhappy.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	She could not at first tell why she felt sad, but she became conscious at last of great longing to go home; then she knew she was homesick, although she was a thousand times better off with Mother Holle than with her mother and sister.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	After waiting awhile, she went to Mother Holle and said, "I am so homesick, that I cannot stay with you any longer, for although I am so happy here, I must return to my own people."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Take us out, take us out, or alas! we shall be burnt to a cinder; we were baked through long ago," cried the loaves as before.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Shake me, shake me, I pray; my apples, one and all, are ripe," it cried.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But, try what she would, she could not get the pitch off and it stuck to her as long as she lived.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she placed the can before her, and turned the tap, and while the beer was running she would not let her eyes be idle, but looked up at the wall, and after much peering here and there, saw a pick-axe exactly above her, which the masons had accidentally left there.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then she sat and wept and screamed with all the strength of her body, over the misfortune which lay before her.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Those upstairs waited for the drink, but Clever Elsie still did not come.
fear	fairytale_sentences	If I get Hans, and we have a child, and he grows big, and has to draw beer here, the pick-axe will perhaps fall on his head, and kill him."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then said the maid: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down beside her and began loudly to weep over the misfortune.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The boy went down, and there sat Clever Elsie and the girl both weeping together.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then said the boy: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down by her, and likewise began to howl loudly.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The woman went down, and found all three in the midst of their lamentations, and inquired what was the cause; then Elsie told her also that her future child was to be killed by the pick-axe, when it grew big and had to draw beer, and the pick-axe fell down.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then said the mother likewise: "What a clever Elsie we have!" and sat down and wept with them.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The man upstairs waited a short time, but as his wife did not come back and his thirst grew ever greater, he said: "I must go into the cellar myself and see where Elsie is."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But when he got into the cellar, and they were all sitting together crying, and he heard the reason, and that Elsie"s child was the cause, and the Elsie might perhaps bring one into the world some day, and that he might be killed by the pick-axe, if he should happen to be sitting beneath it, drawing beer just at the very time when it fell down, he cried: "Oh, what a clever Elsie!" and sat down, and likewise wept with them.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he got down, the five of them were sitting screaming and lamenting quite piteously, each outdoing the other.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, dear Hans," said Elsie, "if we marry each other and have a child, and he is big, and we perhaps send him here to draw something to drink, then the pick-axe which has been left up there might dash his brains out if it were to fall down, so have we not reason to weep?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	At length, when it was quite dark, Clever Elsie awoke and when she got up there was a jingling all round about her, and the bells rang at each step which she took.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But she knew not what answer to make to this, and stood for a time in doubt; at length she thought: "I will go home and ask if it be I, or if it be not I, they will be sure to know."
fear	fairytale_sentences	She ran to the door of her own house, but it was shut; then she knocked at the window and cried: "Hans, is Elsie within?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Hereupon she was terrified, and said: "Ah, heavens!
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then it is not I," and went to another door; but when the people heard the jingling of the bells they would not open it, and she could get in nowhere.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then she ran out of the village, and no one has seen her since.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When anything had to be done, it was always the elder who was forced to do it; but if his father bade him fetch anything when it was late, or in the night-time, and the way led through the churchyard, or any other dismal place, he answered: "Oh, no father, I"ll not go there, it makes me shudder!" for he was afraid.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Or when stories were told by the fire at night which made the flesh creep, the listeners sometimes said: "Oh, it makes us shudder!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"That, too, must be an art of which I understand nothing!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	Look how your brother works, but you do not even earn your salt."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I don"t understand that at all yet."
anger	fairytale_sentences	He will never be good for anything as long as he lives!
anger	fairytale_sentences	The father sighed, and answered him: "You shall soon learn what it is to shudder, but you will not earn your bread by that."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You shall soon learn what shuddering is," thought he, and secretly went there before him; and when the boy was at the top of the tower and turned round, and was just going to take hold of the bell rope, he saw a white figure standing on the stairs opposite the sounding hole.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Give an answer," cried the boy, "or take yourself off, you have no business here at night."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The boy cried a second time: "What do you want here?--speak if you are an honest fellow, or I will throw you down the steps!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the boy called to him for the third time, and as that was also to no purpose, he ran against him and pushed the ghost down the stairs, so that it fell down the ten steps and remained lying there in a corner.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The sexton"s wife waited a long time for her husband, but he did not come back.
fear	fairytale_sentences	At length she became uneasy, and wakened the boy, and asked: "Do you know where my husband is?
fear	fairytale_sentences	He climbed up the tower before you did."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Just go there and you will see if it was he.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	I should be sorry if it were."
anger	fairytale_sentences	She carried him down, and then with loud screams she hastened to the boy"s father, "Your boy," cried she, "has been the cause of a great misfortune!
anger	fairytale_sentences	He has thrown my husband down the steps so that he broke his leg.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Take the good-for-nothing fellow out of our house."
fear	fairytale_sentences	The father was terrified, and ran thither and scolded the boy.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What wicked tricks are these?" said he.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"The devil must have put them into your head."
anger	fairytale_sentences	I am quite innocent.
anger	fairytale_sentences	He was standing there by night like one intent on doing evil.
anger	fairytale_sentences	I did not know who it was, and I entreated him three times either to speak or to go away."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Go out of my sight.
anger	fairytale_sentences	I will see you no more."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, father, right willingly, wait only until it is day.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Learn what you will," spoke the father, "it is all the same to me.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Yes, father, it shall be as you will.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the day dawned, therefore, the boy put his fifty talers into his pocket, and went forth on the great highway, and continually said to himself: "If I could but shudder!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If I could but shudder!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And as he was cold, he lighted himself a fire, but at midnight the wind blew so sharply that in spite of his fire, he could not get warm.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And as the wind knocked the hanged men against each other, and they moved backwards and forwards, he thought to himself: "If you shiver below by the fire, how those up above must freeze and suffer!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And as he felt pity for them, he raised the ladder, and climbed up, unbound one of them after the other, and brought down all seven.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So he said: "Take care, or I will hang you up again."
anger	fairytale_sentences	At this he grew angry, and said: "If you will not take care, I cannot help you, I will not be burnt with you," and he hung them up again each in his turn.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he sat down by his fire and fell asleep, and the next morning the man came to him and wanted to have the fifty talers, and said: "Well do you know how to shudder?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"No," answered he, "how should I know?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Those fellows up there did not open their mouths, and were so stupid that they let the few old rags which they had on their bodies get burnt."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The youth likewise went his way, and once more began to mutter to himself: "Ah, if I could but shudder!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Ah, if I could but shudder!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I don"t know," answered the youth.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I know not."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"That I may not tell you."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What is it that you are always muttering between your teeth?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah," replied the youth, "I do so wish I could shudder, but no one can teach me how."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Enough of your foolish chatter," said the waggoner.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then at the entrance of the parlour the youth again said quite loudly: "If I could but shudder!
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If I could but shudder!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, be silent," said the hostess, "so many prying persons have already lost their lives, it would be a pity and a shame if such beautiful eyes as these should never see the daylight again."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the youth said: "However difficult it may be, I will learn it.
anger	fairytale_sentences	He let the host have no rest, until the latter told him, that not far from thence stood a haunted castle where anyone could very easily learn what shuddering was, if he would but watch in it for three nights.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Already many men had gone into the castle, but as yet none had come out again.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Ah, if I could but shudder!" said he, "but I shall not learn it here either."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Towards midnight he was about to poke his fire, and as he was blowing it, something cried suddenly from one corner: "Au, miau! how cold we are!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You fools!" cried he, "what are you crying about?
anger	fairytale_sentences	If you are cold, come and take a seat by the fire and warm yourselves."
anger	fairytale_sentences	And when he had said that, two great black cats came with one tremendous leap and sat down on each side of him, and looked savagely at him with their fiery eyes.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Thereupon he seized them by the throats, put them on the cutting-board and screwed their feet fast.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I have looked at your fingers," said he, "and my fancy for card-playing has gone," and he struck them dead and threw them out into the water.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But when he had made away with these two, and was about to sit down again by his fire, out from every hole and corner came black cats and black dogs with red-hot chains, and more and more of them came until he could no longer move, and they yelled horribly, and got on his fire, pulled it to pieces, and tried to put it out.
anger	fairytale_sentences	He watched them for a while quietly, but at last when they were going too far, he seized his cutting-knife, and cried: "Away with you, vermin," and began to cut them down.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Some of them ran away, the others he killed, and threw out into the fish-pond.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When he was just going to shut his eyes, however, the bed began to move of its own accord, and went over the whole of the castle.
fear	fairytale_sentences	In the morning the king came, and when he saw him lying there on the ground, he thought the evil spirits had killed him and he was dead.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then said he: "After all it is a pity,--for so handsome a man."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"No," said he, "it is all in vain.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If someone would but tell me!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The second night he again went up into the old castle, sat down by the fire, and once more began his old song: "If I could but shudder!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then it was quiet for a while, and at length with a loud scream, half a man came down the chimney and fell before him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	This is not enough!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Wait," said he, "I will just stoke up the fire a little for you."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"That is no part of our bargain," said the youth, "the bench is mine."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The man wanted to push him away; the youth, however, would not allow that, but thrust him off with all his strength, and seated himself again in his own place.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I have been playing at ninepins," he answered, "and have lost a couple of farthings."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	If I did but know what it was to shudder!"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The third night he sat down again on his bench and said quite sadly: "If I could but shudder."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The dead man, however, got up and cried: "Now will I strangle you."
anger	fairytale_sentences	You shall at once go into your coffin again," and he took him up, threw him into it, and shut the lid.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I cannot manage to shudder," said he.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I shall never learn it here as long as I live."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You wretch," cried he, "you shall soon learn what it is to shudder, for you shall die."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not so fast," replied the youth.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"If I am to die, I shall have to have a say in it."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I will soon seize you," said the fiend.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Softly, softly, do not talk so big.
anger	fairytale_sentences	I am as strong as you are, and perhaps even stronger."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"We shall see," said the old man.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"If you are stronger, I will let you go--come, we will try."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he led him by dark passages to a smith"s forge, took an axe, and with one blow struck an anvil into the ground.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I can do better than that," said the youth, and went to the other anvil.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the youth seized the axe, split the anvil with one blow, and in it caught the old man"s beard.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Now it is your turn to die."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then he seized an iron bar and beat the old man till he moaned and entreated him to stop, when he would give him great riches.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"No," he answered; "what can it be?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	My dead cousin was here, and a bearded man came and showed me a great deal of money down below, but no one told me what it was to shudder."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"That is all very well," said he, "but still I do not know what it is to shudder!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	And this at last angered her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Her waiting-maid said: "I will find a cure for him; he shall soon learn what it is to shudder."
anger	fairytale_sentences	At night when the young king was sleeping, his wife was to draw the clothes off him and empty the bucket full of cold water with the gudgeons in it over him, so that the little fishes would sprawl about him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"The little louse has burnt herself, The little flea is weeping."
fear	fairytale_sentences	So the little broom began to sweep frantically.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	This king once fell very ill--so ill that nobody thought he could live.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	His sons were very much grieved at their father"s sickness; and as they were walking together very mournfully in the garden of the palace, a little old man met them and asked what was the matter.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	They told him that their father was very ill, and that they were afraid nothing could save him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the eldest son said, "I will soon find it": and he went to the sick king, and begged that he might go in search of the Water of Life, as it was the only thing that could save him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But the dwarf was enraged at his behaviour, and laid a fairy spell of ill-luck upon him; so that as he rode on the mountain pass became narrower and narrower, and at last the way was so straitened that he could not go to step forward: and when he thought to have turned his horse round and go back the way he came, he heard a loud laugh ringing round him, and found that the path was closed behind him, so that he was shut in all round.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Meantime the old king was lingering on in daily hope of his son"s return, till at last the second son said, "Father, I will go in search of the Water of Life."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The king was at first very unwilling to let him go, but at last yielded to his wish.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then he sprang from the couch dreadfully frightened, ran to the well, filled a cup that was standing by him full of water, and hastened to get away in time.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the prince thought to himself, "I cannot go home to my father without my brothers"; so he said, "My dear friend, cannot you tell me where my two brothers are, who set out in search of the Water of Life before me, and never came back?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I have shut them up by a charm between two mountains," said the dwarf, "because they were proud and ill-behaved, and scorned to ask advice."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The prince begged so hard for his brothers, that the dwarf at last set them free, though unwillingly, saying, "Beware of them, for they have bad hearts."
anger	fairytale_sentences	When they came to the sea, they got into a ship and during their voyage the two eldest said to themselves, "Our brother has got the water which we could not find, therefore our father will forsake us and give him the kingdom, which is our right"; so they were full of envy and revenge, and agreed together how they could ruin him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The old king was still very angry with his youngest son, and thought that he really meant to have taken away his life; so he called his court together, and asked what should be done, and all agreed that he ought to be put to death.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The prince knew nothing of what was going on, till one day, when the king"s chief huntsmen went a-hunting with him, and they were alone in the wood together, the huntsman looked so sorrowful that the prince said, "My friend, what is the matter with you?"
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"I cannot and dare not tell you," said he.
fear	fairytale_sentences	But the prince begged very hard, and said, "Only tell me what it is, and do not think I shall be angry, for I will forgive you."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	"Alas!" said the huntsman; "the king has ordered me to shoot you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Now when the full year was come round, the third brother left the forest in which he had lain hid for fear of his father"s anger, and set out in search of his betrothed bride.
anger	fairytale_sentences	And the old king was very angry, and wanted to punish his wicked sons; but they made their escape, and got into a ship and sailed away over the wide sea, and where they went to nobody knew and nobody cared.
fear	fairytale_sentences	One day he sent out a huntsman to shoot him a roe, but he did not come back.
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Perhaps some accident has befallen him," said the king, and the next day he sent out two more huntsmen who were to search for him, but they too stayed away.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then on the third day, he sent for all his huntsmen, and said: "Scour the whole forest through, and do not give up until you have found all three."
fear	fairytale_sentences	But of these also, none came home again, none were seen again.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The king, however, would not give his consent, and said: "It is not safe in there; I fear it would fare with you no better than with the others, and you would never come out again."
fear	fairytale_sentences	It was not long before the dog fell in with some game on the way, and wanted to pursue it; but hardly had the dog run two steps when it stood before a deep pool, could go no farther, and a naked arm stretched itself out of the water, seized it, and drew it under.
fear	fairytale_sentences	When the huntsman saw that, he went back and fetched three men to come with buckets and bale out the water.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The king had a son of eight years, who was once playing in the courtyard, and while he was playing, his golden ball fell into the cage.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The boy ran thither and said: "Give me my ball out."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Not till you have opened the door for me," answered the man.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"No," said the boy, "I will not do that; the king has forbidden it," and ran away.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The next day he again went and asked for his ball; the wild man said: "Open my door," but the boy would not.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	On the third day the king had ridden out hunting, and the boy went once more and said: "I cannot open the door even if I wished, for I have not the key."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The boy, who wanted to have his ball back, cast all thought to the winds, and brought the key.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The door opened with difficulty, and the boy pinched his fingers.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The boy had become afraid; he called and cried after him: "Oh, wild man, do not go away, or I shall be beaten!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	When the king came home, he observed the empty cage, and asked the queen how that had happened.
fear	fairytale_sentences	She called the boy, but no one answered.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The king sent out people to seek for him in the fields, but they did not find him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then he could easily guess what had happened, and much grief reigned in the royal court.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When the wild man had once more reached the dark forest, he took the boy down from his shoulder, and said to him: "You will never see your father and mother again, but I will keep you with me, for you have set me free, and I have compassion on you.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He made a bed of moss for the boy on which he slept, and the next morning the man took him to a well, and said: "Behold, the gold well is as bright and clear as crystal, you shall sit beside it, and take care that nothing falls into it, or it will be polluted.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The boy placed himself by the brink of the well, and often saw a golden fish or a golden snake show itself therein, and took care that nothing fell in.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	As he was thus sitting, his finger hurt him so violently that he involuntarily put it in the water.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He drew it quickly out again, but saw that it was quite gilded, and whatsoever pains he took to wash the gold off again, all was to no purpose.
anger	fairytale_sentences	In the evening Iron Hans came back, looked at the boy, and said: "What has happened to the well?"
fear	fairytale_sentences	"Nothing nothing," he answered, and held his finger behind his back, that the man might not see it.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But he said: "You have dipped your finger into the water, this time it may pass, but take care you do not again let anything go in."
fear	fairytale_sentences	He took it quickly out, but it was already quite gilded.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Iron Hans came, and already knew what had happened.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You have let a hair fall into the well," said he.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I will allow you to watch by it once more, but if this happens for the third time then the well is polluted and you can no longer remain with me."
fear	fairytale_sentences	On the third day, the boy sat by the well, and did not stir his finger, however much it hurt him.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the time was long to him, and he looked at the reflection of his face on the surface of the water.
fear	fairytale_sentences	You can imagine how terrified the poor boy was!
fear	fairytale_sentences	He took his pockethandkerchief and tied it round his head, in order that the man might not see it.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When he came he already knew everything, and said: "Take the handkerchief off."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the golden hair streamed forth, and let the boy excuse himself as he might, it was of no use.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"You have not stood the trial and can stay here no longer.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Go forth into the world, there you will learn what poverty is.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But as you have not a bad heart, and as I mean well by you, there is one thing I will grant you; if you fall into any difficulty, come to the forest and cry: "Iron Hans," and then I will come and help you.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	There he looked for work, but could find none, and he learnt nothing by which he could help himself.
fear	fairytale_sentences	Once when it so happened that no one else was at hand, the cook ordered him to carry the food to the royal table, but as he did not like to let his golden hair be seen, he kept his little cap on.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Such a thing as that had never yet come under the king"s notice, and he said: "When you come to the royal table you must take your hat off."
fear	fairytale_sentences	He answered: "Ah, Lord, I cannot; I have a bad sore place on my head."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the king had the cook called before him and scolded him, and asked how he could take such a boy as that into his service; and that he was to send him away at once.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	The cook, however, had pity on him, and exchanged him for the gardener"s boy.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And now the boy had to plant and water the garden, hoe and dig, and bear the wind and bad weather.
fear	fairytale_sentences	He put his cap on with all haste, and gathered wild field-flowers and bound them together.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When he was ascending the stairs with them, the gardener met him, and said: "How can you take the king"s daughter a garland of such common flowers?
anger	fairytale_sentences	Go quickly, and get another, and seek out the prettiest and rarest."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Oh, no," replied the boy, "the wild ones have more scent, and will please her better."
fear	fairytale_sentences	He again said: "I may not, I have a sore head."
anger	fairytale_sentences	On the third day things went just the same; she could not get his cap away from him, and he would not have her money.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The king gathered together his people, and did not know whether or not he could offer any opposition to the enemy, who was superior in strength and had a mighty army.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then said the gardener"s boy: "I am grown up, and will go to the wars also, only give me a horse."
anger	fairytale_sentences	When they had gone forth, he went into the stable, and led the horse out; it was lame of one foot, and limped hobblety jib, hobblety jib; nevertheless he mounted it, and rode away to the dark forest.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	When he got near the battlefield a great part of the king"s men had already fallen, and little was wanting to make the rest give way.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then the youth galloped thither with his iron soldiers, broke like a hurricane over the enemy, and beat down all who opposed him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	So he said: "I did the best of all, and it would have gone badly without me."
anger	fairytale_sentences	And then he was still more ridiculed."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The king grew angry, and said: "That is not allowed; he must appear before me and tell his name."
anger	fairytale_sentences	He gave the order that if the knight who caught the apple, should go away again they should pursue him, and if he would not come back willingly, they were to cut him down and stab him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But when he was riding off with it, the king"s attendants pursued him, and one of them got so near him that he wounded the youth"s leg with the point of his sword.
fear	fairytale_sentences	So she called all seven to her and said: "Dear children, I have to go into the forest, be on your guard against the wolf; if he comes in, he will devour you all--skin, hair, and everything.
anger	fairytale_sentences	She has a soft, pleasant voice, but your voice is rough; you are the wolf!"
anger	fairytale_sentences	The miller thought to himself: "The wolf wants to deceive someone," and refused; but the wolf said: "If you will not do it, I will devour you."
fear	fairytale_sentences	Then the miller was afraid, and made his paws white for him.
fear	fairytale_sentences	They were terrified and wanted to hide themselves.
fear	fairytale_sentences	One sprang under the table, the second into the bed, the third into the stove, the fourth into the kitchen, the fifth into the cupboard, the sixth under the washing-bowl, and the seventh into the clock-case.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	But the wolf found them all, and used no great ceremony; one after the other he swallowed them down his throat.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then you may imagine how she wept over her poor children.
sadness	fairytale_sentences	At length in her grief she went out, and the youngest kid ran with her.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The mother, however, said: "Now go and look for some big stones, and we will fill the wicked beast"s stomach with them while he is still asleep."
sadness	fairytale_sentences	And when he got to the well and stooped over the water to drink, the heavy stones made him fall in, and he drowned miserably.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The bear was about to set at the little fellow at once, and give him a hearty welcome with his paws: "Softly, softly," said the little tailor, "I will soon make thee quiet."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The bear put them in his mouth, but could get nothing out of them, let him bite as he would.
anger	fairytale_sentences	Then a vise was brought, and the bear put his claws in it, and the little tailor screwed it tight, and said, "Now wait until I come with the scissors," and he let the bear growl as he liked, and lay down in the corner on a bundle of straw, and fell asleep.
anger	fairytale_sentences	When they had got into the carriage, the two other tailors, who had false hearts and envied him his good fortune, went into the stable and unscrewed the bear again.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The bear in great fury ran after the carriage.
fear	fairytale_sentences	The princess heard him snorting and growling; she was terrified, and she cried, "Ah, the bear is behind us and wants to get thee!"
fear	fairytale_sentences	When the bear saw that, he turned round and ran away.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The King, who had a bad heart, and was angry about the prophecy, went to the parents, and, seeming quite friendly, said, "You poor people, let me have your child, and I will take care of it."
fear	fairytale_sentences	"You poor boy," said the woman, "you have come into a den of thieves, and when they come home they will kill you."
anger	fairytale_sentences	Soon afterwards the robbers came, and angrily asked what strange boy was lying there?
sadness	fairytale_sentences	Then the hard-hearted robbers felt pity, and their leader tore up the letter and wrote another, saying, that as soon as the boy came, he should be married at once to the King"s daughter.
anger	fairytale_sentences	The King said in a passion, "You shall not have everything quite so much your own way; whosoever marries my daughter must fetch me from hell three golden hairs from the head of the devil; bring me what I want, and you shall keep my daughter."
anger	fairytale_sentences	"I smell man"s flesh," said he; "all is not right here."
anger	fairytale_sentences	His grandmother scolded him.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"It has just been swept," said she, "and everything put in order, and now you are upsetting it again; you have always got man"s flesh in your nose.
anger	fairytale_sentences	"Ha! what are you doing?" cried the devil angrily.
anger	fairytale_sentences	But leave me alone with your dreams: if you disturb me in my sleep again you will get a box on the ear."
anger	fairytale_sentences	The devil jumped up, roared out, and would have treated her ill if she had not quieted him once more and said, "Who can help bad dreams?"
anger	fairytale_sentences	"What was the dream, then?" asked he, and was quite curious.
sadness	artificial_sentences	At this stage you are normally expected to experience grief when the main feeling is shock .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Too much , it seemed to me , was made of Tom 's grief : his courtship of Araminta was forward-looking , and deep grief needs roots in the past .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It is things like that which are really destructive to writers , who are often brave about illness and pain , and resilient after all but the deepest grief .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Half a week after that encounter , Charlie had heard that his beloved had parted from the man with great grief , and was in need of tender care .
sadness	artificial_sentences	That certainly did n't sound serious enough to account for her great grief .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As you would expect , she was overcome with grief . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	But for the time being , Private Morrison 's family , already overcome by grief , can only wait and hope his body will be released to them soon .
sadness	artificial_sentences	But it was the scene of my first heartbreak .
sadness	artificial_sentences	And , to complete his heartbreak , his car broke down when he was looking for his ninth win of the season at the Italian Grand Prix .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I do n't think I could cope with your heartbreak . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	That concern turned to heartbreak when they heard of his mother 's grim fate .
sadness	artificial_sentences	You must have been heartbroken . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	When Annie 's daughter died at the age of five , she was heartbroken .
sadness	artificial_sentences	A heartbroken Daniels watched this all going on , and was moved to break the golden rule of not speaking until spoken to .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Heartbroken , Maria had to return to the convent and remain a nun for the rest of her life .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I am heartbroken because football has been my whole life . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	Heartbroken Tim Godwin weeps as he tells how he had to tell his 23-month-old daughter Sophie : ` Mummy is n't coming back " .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She crammed more living into her 30 years than most people experience in two lifetimes , according to her heartbroken parents Ken and Diana .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The kids will be heartbroken .
sadness	artificial_sentences	And yesterday his heartbroken wife Jane slammed police for failing to find him after she raised the alarm 48 hours earlier .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Yesterday the heartbroken teenager , who was on the verge of trials with the Royal Ballet , said : ` In just one second , my life has been wrecked .
sadness	artificial_sentences	THE heartbroken mother of transplant donor Paula Moss is leaving England to work as a missionary .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Only afterwards , when Tommy disappeared and Maudie seemed so heartbroken , then I began to wonder .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Sitting in front of the looking glass , making up her face , she hoped that Anthony was all right and not quite as heartbroken as Julia seemed to think he was .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Although I have has a lot of support , I feel heartbroken about Henri 's future .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` The popular story is that he was so heartbroken he ran off to join a religious order , and has since been ordained . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	Scorning the establishment , they left homes and heartbroken parents .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I thought they must have had a quarrel , " Brand said , and I had the impression he was n't heartbroken about it . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	His heartbroken mum , Colette , said : ` Paul is so upset .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Surely someone somewhere knows who killed Ann Heron and that person could ease the pain for her heartbroken family .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She looked into his eyes and saw terrible pain and inconsolable grief .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The boy was broken-hearted and inconsolable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The women wait anxiously and when the boat returns one of its crew has been lost , causing inconsolable grief to his young wife .
sadness	artificial_sentences	William was inconsolable and , unable to settle at home , continued to travel extensively .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Liza , for her part , had still seemed inconsolable when she first arrived back at her unit on the edge of Salisbury Plain .
sadness	artificial_sentences	There are periods when we feel totally inconsolable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It can be the focus of inconsolable grief ; it inspires poetry and literature , symphonies and songs .
sadness	artificial_sentences	In the event , Maman was inconsolable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was inconsolable when he found what she 'd done .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Yussuf had been quite inconsolable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was not inconsolable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Vincent agreed , too low-spirited to put up any resistance .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She sounded a little low-spirited .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Sven Hjerson 's lugubrious face lit up in a brief smile .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I kept trying to get back to Changez 's lugubrious face , which reclined morosely in his good hand as the guests filled the air around him with cultivated noises .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The lugubrious publican had seen it as his job to repel strangers and had employed to that end an impressive armoury of taciturnity , malevolent glances , warm beer and poor service .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was a plodding lugubrious fellow , and we were delighted with his Wodehousian name .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Bert , a lanky , lugubrious individual , declined .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He looked up , his lugubrious face pale , and Athelstan saw it was tear-stained .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He became even more lugubrious .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Bathsheba was watching his expression closely , and she had never been more miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` If you do n't help me , I shall make you more miserable than you have ever been in your life .
sadness	artificial_sentences	There I lay , half-roasted on one side , freezing on the other , in a sort of trance , more abjectly miserable than I can tell .
sadness	artificial_sentences	On one of our visits we found a representative of the Occidental Oil Company stranded there , looking most miserable and bedraggled in the morass of mud and pouring rain .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Neither of us could wait to get the round over , we were so cold and miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I used to be sad and pathetic , but I 'm not so miserable any more .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was so miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Of course I like them ; if I did n't I 'd be utterly miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Accordingly , I wrote to my parents and , having pretended for years that I was relatively happy at school , I now confessed that I was utterly miserable , and begged them to take me away .
sadness	artificial_sentences	They were on the top floor of an old house and he was very cold and very miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I 'm very miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As he nodded she went on , ` I 'd had a bit of a knock in -- in a relationship with a man in London , and I was very miserable over Elise 's death .
sadness	artificial_sentences	And when I first got an inkling the little was far worse than none , and I became melancholy and miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Every day they became more miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As Joe and Biddy became a little more cheerful , discussing my possible plans for the future , I became more miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I feel really miserable to tell the truth .
sadness	artificial_sentences	When the reaction set in she had felt utterly miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Sheila Williams was feeling miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Five minutes went by as she reflected that Rosemary must be feeling as miserable as Travis , then , checking to see that Travis was all right as she passed , she went to bed .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The dog seems anxious to get the harness on ; indeed , all through the trip the dogs are always keen to pull and seem miserable when they are tied off for the night .
sadness	artificial_sentences	They seemed demoralized and miserable , operating an endless mechanical process .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I 'm too miserable to eat . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	I was too miserable to giggle , but I wondered if the fiances had when he postured on his lawn .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As I read it , I was sad to think how miserable Anne had been , in a big house away from home , where no one understood her .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Now her vivid imagination had no difficulty in showing her how Mark 's last drive alone must have been , how miserable he must have felt .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She missed him , and missed the companionable secrecy of their relationship , but she was not miserable about it .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She in turn had been drawn to him at the time when she was miserable about Jean-Pierre .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As Michael Codron told me : ` Ken remained very loyal to it , even though he was miserable about it .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It was the kind of life that ` was making life miserable in the extreme for her and since I felt responsible for her it was making me miserable too .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Loads of my friends are miserable over the way they look , and the media are basically saying , ` Yes , you 're right to be miserable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` Harry , we 're going to make ourselves miserable beyond measure if we go on like this .
sadness	artificial_sentences	If , as she suspected , Elizabeth was miserable because of that dreary village sawbones , then it was dishonest and unlikeable of her to pretend that it was because of her sister-in-law .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He must be miserable . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	To misquote you : he is itinerant because he is miserable . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	Brian Davies , also from near Coventry , had entered some immense pumpkins and marrows , but seemed mournful .
sadness	artificial_sentences	On the other hand , the most important person , the cameraman , wore jeans and a Micky Mouse T-shirt , over which his mournful , deadpan moon face shone incongruously .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It is her whole situation -- she is so mournful and silently accusing and sometimes , Robert , I think her as mad as Landor with all this nonsense she makes of the Bible from time to time .
sadness	artificial_sentences	His face was completely serious , even slightly mournful .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was at the graveside looking mournful and interesting .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He had a narrow mournful face , tapering to a long pointed chin .
sadness	artificial_sentences	They 'd had a skinful so were n't in a particularly noticing mood but they saw and heard nothing , nothing except what they described as a kind of mournful whistling coming from deep in the wood . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	Gloom , on the other hand , sees a noisy , grimy city with crowded underground stations , overpriced restaurants , jostling strangers and mournful faces .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` It gobbled up the bird in one go , " said a mournful bird-watcher yesterday .
sadness	artificial_sentences	There was the mournful sound of human voices , and then a jolt .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I could n't bear the mournful look on his face .
sadness	artificial_sentences	How dare you seem so mournful . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was drawn to such slow , mournful music and he carried it with him everywhere .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Joe sat with his head in his hands not hearing the mournful sound of a tug edging shorewards in the direction of the docks or the lonely cry of the seagulls overhead .
sadness	artificial_sentences	With her long hair drooping round her face and her large , mournful eyes , she looked like a lost basset-hound puppy .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The merchant 's long face was even more mournful and the friar was sure the man had been crying .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The Counts were well pleased at this ; but all the people of the land were sorrowful .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Tero followed them at a distance , watching her new friend with sorrowful anxious eyes .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Elizabeth Mowbray 's face was pale and tense , her sorrowful mien reflecting the newly sombre mood of the court .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Not from irritation , but because she knew it was a lie , and felt sorrowful because of Alice .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Coventry turned and looked at him , a long dark sorrowful stare .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Then the toot of a trumpet and the clown with the enormous sorrowful eyes was coming at her in her ring-side seat and she wanted to run away .
sadness	artificial_sentences	His liquid eyes were sorrowful and the ends of his moustache drooped .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Then he relaxes into a sorrowful smile , like when you remember someone you loved who died a long time ago .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Moreover , I disliked the Lady Eleanor intensely , with her sorrowful face and moping ways .
sadness	artificial_sentences	One of the three khthons began to hum a sorrowful melody .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The poem interlocks the narrative description with Mariana 's own sorrowful moans .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Athelstan rubbed his mouth with his thumb and gazed directly at Cranston 's sorrowful face .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Philippa thought , perhaps this news benefits the king , but it brings sorrow for the rest of us .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Jacob filled to the brim with sorrow for the woman whom , despite everything , he had loved .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Psalm 13 put her own question well &mdash'How; long shall l take counsel in my soul , having sorrow in my heart daily ?
sadness	artificial_sentences	As the tartan army drowned its sorrows in the bars of Soho , Frank preferred a candlelit dinner .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I have naught to offer you , " the youth was saying and there was sorrow in his voice .
sadness	artificial_sentences	There was genuine sorrow in the producer 's voice .
sadness	artificial_sentences	June Barraclough 's A Time to Love ( Methuen , 12.95 ) spans both World Wars and paints a vivid picture of the loves and sorrows of the characters in the lives of two women friends .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Yet the sorrow of Leibnitz , were he to have needlessly destroyed it , is described as ` a natural feeling for a humane man " .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Help us to become more aware of the needs , the joys and the sorrows of our brothers here .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The look of reproach and sorrow on her face cut into him far more deeply than any angry words could have done .
sadness	artificial_sentences	But the parting has brought some sweet sorrow to her and her landlord .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Miss Worthington often felt it would have been an unendurable sorrow to her parents if they had lived to witness the extent of the deterioration .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was a man drowning his sorrows , he 'd decided .
sadness	artificial_sentences	There were dry gingers and tonics prepared for the whiskies and gins which everyone hoped would drown the star 's sorrows .
sadness	artificial_sentences	My hand caresses the surging wind ; I am deeper drowned in sorrow .
sadness	artificial_sentences	They were young but they walked bent in sorrow .
sadness	artificial_sentences	MOST of those who read Glenys Roberts 's moan ( March 15 ) and who know Monaco felt , I suspect , more sorrow for the author than disdain for the place .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He could see sorrow in the dark eyes which glowed as if there were candles burning behind them .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Other people 's sorrows on the whole weigh lightly on our shoulders : a merciful provision .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I drowned my sorrows on the school goalposts , as football was banned .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Taking as his theme the great rivers of the world , the Ganges , the Jordan , the Mississippi , the Clyde -- and of course the Boyne -- he weaves a tapestry evoking both sorrow and joy .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The reporter , treading delicately , had asked if it was a great sorrow to her when she and Walter separated .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` But I feel dismay , sorrow , for so many people in our country who do not share this personal good fortune and who as a result of further years of Tory government will experience further disadvantage .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Jesus felt despair and sorrow to such an extent that there is a mood of desperation in the story .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As his wife , as his Louise , had slipped , there was no friend with whom he could share the sorrow he felt over his son .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Yet she suffered his grief with him , wanting to share his sorrow , hoping that she could alleviate some of his pain .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The Irish President , Mary Robinson , had earlier said she shared the sorrow and anguish of the people of her country .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He looked so woebegone .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Hepzibah looked at Carrie 's woebegone face .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` God give me strength , " he yelled , instantly turning his attention back to the younger man who stood before him , and whose woebegone expression would have been comical were it not so pitiful .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I had to rush around trying to find a farmer with a cart who might be going where I wanted , " Katz lamented , his woebegone countenance matching his sorry tale .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Liz must have looked as woebegone as she felt when they staggered into the stuffy carriage , because Barbara had burst out laughing .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Her Mum smiled at the woebegone face .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Len looked apologetic and woebegone , and mumbled something about not letting down his mates .
sadness	artificial_sentences	But she was torn by her daughter 's despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	A merciful wave was closing over it , healing her despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Jamie Hill , defending , said Glorney 's marriage had broken down and his despair manifested itself in him turning to drink and committing offences .
sadness	artificial_sentences	When Lansdowne communicated his despair about the war to the press in 1917 and called for negotiations , there was a storm of protest .
sadness	artificial_sentences	As he stared at the torment , fury , and despair in her face , he knew that Clare would not forgive him .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The despair in their father 's voice had sent a sudden chill of apprehension through the brothers .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The profound anguish and hopeless despair of this woman in the face of what she believed to be the moral ruin of her whole life can not well be described .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Since last May many of these same passers-by have come face to face on their TV screens with the agony , desolation and despair of the people of Ethiopia and the Sudan .
sadness	artificial_sentences	ON a day which saw a host of prophets confounded -- and a month of near despair for many Conservative loyalists -- the reputation of one sage is intact .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Rune frowned as his eagle-eyed regard read the despair on her face .
sadness	artificial_sentences	From the despair in the parson 's eyes the doctor saw that this remedy had already been tried to no avail .
sadness	artificial_sentences	But he could not watch her terrible despairs without participating in them ; increasingly , he found he was as paralysed by them as she was herself .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Many parents experience deep pain and despair about their teenage children .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Gabriel forgot his own sadness when he saw the bitterness and deep despair on the farmer 's face .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Shelley sat down beside the patient and smiled at him , the cheerfulness coming from somewhere behind her deep despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	By calling on his fellow socialists to perform the equivalent of a collective hara-kiri , he paradoxically appears to have given them back hope of a new life at the moment of their deepest despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Evelyn had never experienced such utter despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The tears came , and rapidly dissolved her angry expression to one of utter despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Through a swell of tears Ruth stared incredulously at the bundle and felt such despair that she feared she would drop the child .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She glanced down at the linoleum in despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Perhaps it was despair that made me believe there was one person in the world who might know that I was in despair .
sadness	artificial_sentences	That he forgot his guest in his despair ,
fear	artificial_sentences	Leo demanded as he wrenched back to stare down into her almost terror-stricken face .
fear	artificial_sentences	A CITY 'S terror-stricken minicab drivers are threatening to quit their jobs in fear after the murder of a young cabbie .
fear	artificial_sentences	` I 'm not particularly worried if players do n't score , but you just ca n't stroll around .
fear	artificial_sentences	They simply could not understand why people in England were so worried .
fear	artificial_sentences	Rose stood looking down at her , a worried expression in her eyes .
fear	artificial_sentences	This leads to highly agitated motions and correspondingly high temperatures .
fear	artificial_sentences	His two thumbs rotated about one another as they always did when he was agitated and looking for a way to strike .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was agitated ; there were a few tears .
fear	artificial_sentences	Little Maureen was agitated , but she made a nice speech .
fear	artificial_sentences	` When we came to tell you that the service was postponed you were in a very agitated state -- but then it was difficult to persuade you to leave off playing . "
fear	artificial_sentences	` When a police sergeant revisited Mr Thompson he was still clearly the worse for drink and was in an agitated state . "
fear	artificial_sentences	He was becoming agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	The priest became agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	The Spaniard was becoming agitated again , wondering whether he had already gone too far .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was getting agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	Do n't get agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	He paced about for some time , looking agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	Rachel and her mother looked agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	Country and Western is suitable for calming an agitated animal
fear	artificial_sentences	It emerged that , in conscious and especially in excited or agitated patients , the drug produced a remarkable state of inactivity or indifference .
fear	artificial_sentences	Annabel said in an agitated voice , ` I feel as if my mind is whirling madly , like a hurricane .
fear	artificial_sentences	Just before we were to go upstairs to be photographed , an agitated Nigel Lawson came up to me saying that he wanted a word .
fear	artificial_sentences	Trance-like he drove down the Edgware Road , responding to the multitudinous traffic lights with mechanical movements , while the agitated Eleanor continued to lash his unreceptive ear with a never-ending stream of abuse .
fear	artificial_sentences	The boss sounded agitated when I spoke to him over the phone . "
fear	artificial_sentences	At Portsmouth , Lily Lee creatively amplifies a passage from Machiavelli 's The Prince , inscribing a chilling statement in a bold agitated hand .
fear	artificial_sentences	An agitated old lady addressed Ramsey severely and asked why he did not go back to his own country and do good there instead of stirring up trouble in the United States .
fear	artificial_sentences	More usually it left him ashamed and angry , despite his wife 's kind words of consolation , and Ashi herself in an agitated state of dissatisfaction and unhappiness .
fear	artificial_sentences	He seemed agitated , restlessly pacing about , looking out into the crowds , then drawing back into the shelter of the arcade .
fear	artificial_sentences	Nevertheless , Maeve 's sharp eyes had missed nothing ; her husband looked exhausted , troubled , and now she felt agitated .
fear	artificial_sentences	Suddenly , a wave of tiredness swept through her and she closed her eyes for a moment , during which the girl remained quiet , but visibly agitated and eager to be getting on with her work .
fear	artificial_sentences	Behind the front door hovered a small and wiry man who appeared greatly agitated and whose polished bald head was flushed and sweating profusely in spite of the cold .
fear	artificial_sentences	Perhaps the mural makes it new , so shamelessly bright upon the wall like something spilt , and the restless assortment of weekend patrons who watch the stage with agitated and expectant eyes .
fear	artificial_sentences	What a contrast with the rattled and untrustworthy gamblers at Number 10 and Number 11 Downing Street .
fear	artificial_sentences	" Dear God , " he said , beginning to get rattled .
fear	artificial_sentences	You could n't simply ignore the fact that he had sentenced you to death , but it was important to let him know that you were n't rattled .
fear	artificial_sentences	There is a clear lesson there for a beleagured John Major and a rattled Tory government .
fear	artificial_sentences	While Grant was wakening the kids , he discovered to his dismay that most of the cubicles held four occupants , sleeping in bunk beds .
fear	artificial_sentences	The first important truth for voters in such spirits is that , in their dismay about recent economic and political errors , they are forgetting the immense Tory achievements which preceded them , and are now at risk again .
fear	artificial_sentences	There was dismay in Belgrade .
fear	artificial_sentences	Equally inevitably , there was outrage and dismay in India .
fear	artificial_sentences	THE Italian writer Primo Levi died on 11 April 1987 , to the dismay of his readers .
fear	artificial_sentences	To the dismay of the South Africans , umpire Cumberbatch merely signalled a leg-side wide .
fear	artificial_sentences	Ian Fleming 's superhero first appeared in Issue 4 of ZZAP ! , much to the dismay of the reviewing team .
fear	artificial_sentences	The Estonians require a language test before full civil rights are granted , to the dismay of their Russian-speaking population .
fear	artificial_sentences	Typically , Gould 's infrequent letters home detailed only his ornithological exploits , much to the dismay of the household , who were desperate to hear news of a more personal nature .
fear	artificial_sentences	Seeing the look of dismay on her mother 's face , Tamar continued , ` You wo n't be telling a lie .
fear	artificial_sentences	The bank had made no secret of their dismay over Virgin 's venture into airlines .
fear	artificial_sentences	Journalists were asked by the manager to attend a midday conference at Celtic Park in the expectation that Brady would be commenting on his dismay over anonymous , directorial criticism of the team 's progress .
fear	artificial_sentences	He listened soberly and with growing dismay to what the young bank officer from Jeddah had to say , and scanned the computer printouts across his desk with a practised eye .
fear	artificial_sentences	Edward concealed his dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	In the thirtieth minute , Gary Weaving scored what looked like a perfectly good goal , only for the linesman to rule it out for offside , to everyone 's dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	` It 's stuck ! " she cried in dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	Anyone could have typed that message and his initial , she realised with dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	She jumped up , frowning in dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	Gascoigne is the first Englishman to fill the role since Bobby Charlton , a man whose absence from a team sheet spread dismay among team-mates and supporters alike .
fear	artificial_sentences	Please do n't let the dismay of the pro-Ford lobby colour your judgement in future road tests .
fear	artificial_sentences	There was dismay on her face , now .
fear	artificial_sentences	To the dismay of German suppliers , Mr Lopez is also eager to share this advice with foreign competitors .
fear	artificial_sentences	I watched with dismay as they hit the floor and bounced to eight dusty oblivions .
fear	artificial_sentences	In this he resembled Bonamy Dobre at Leeds , who reacted with the utmost dismay when his pet student , Robin Skelton , announced his engagement to a fellow-student .
fear	artificial_sentences	Perhaps it was something in the dowager-duchess 's voice that caused it , but Joan to her own dismay burst into tears .
fear	artificial_sentences	I read with dismay the remark attributed to the Central Scotland Water Development Board in your report today that ` water required powerful law " , otherwise , the water authorities ` would never get anything done " .
fear	artificial_sentences	He predicted ` deep dismay in Hong Kong , deepened only by the statement of the official Opposition . "
fear	artificial_sentences	She wrote : " Thank you for your letter dated 9th October 1991 which I have read with great dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	Effortlessly , his knee slid to part her legs , but when she threw him a look of utter dismay he paused .
fear	artificial_sentences	The commercial ethic meant some deterioration in standards , while the cutbacks in the Overseas News department , one of the glories of Bush House , caused much dismay in the public communications world .
fear	artificial_sentences	This caused a good deal of consternation and dismay in Westminster .
fear	artificial_sentences	And it was equally insistent that a policy of retreat would cause dismay in Washington , thereby diminishing Britain 's ability to exert influence over American policy .
fear	artificial_sentences	Floyd Patterson has expressed dismay over the current treatment .
fear	artificial_sentences	Edouard looked at him , and felt a sickening dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	When Tina and the children moved into the School , Cecilia felt both dismay and guilty relief .
fear	artificial_sentences	But he felt ` dismay and sorrow for so many people in our country who do not share this personal good fortune . "
fear	artificial_sentences	They stared at one another in dismay , the sad , small wickedness of their friends and neighbours strewn around their minds like dirty confetti from a party long past .
fear	artificial_sentences	Cleo stared at the contents with dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	Melissa stared at her friend in dismay .
fear	artificial_sentences	Successive state elections have seen the governing parties pummelled by a dismayed electorate .
fear	artificial_sentences	Vincent was irritated but not dismayed .
fear	artificial_sentences	Kendall-Hume turned back to face the dismayed couple .
fear	artificial_sentences	I am dismayed , but not surprised .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I was quite sad to hear my right hon. Friend the Minister of Agriculture , Fisheries and Food say that he was prepared to sit in the negotiations for months .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I am really sad that nobody wants to do it like I have done it for them .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The Denning family feel sad that , although Sharpness is still thriving , it 'll never be the busy port it once was .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Now it makes me sad to think of them growing up .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I 'm sad that it folded , but it 's come at a good time , " she tells me .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I am desperately sad that our scheme did not come to fruition but I am glad that someone will take it over and bring these jobs to the area .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I am sad we have not been afforded the same welcome given to the Beirut hostages , " he told a deeply moved audience at the AGM last month .
sadness	artificial_sentences	We were all sad it was over " .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I 'm particularly sad my mother has n't had the opportunity to buy even his MC .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It 's possible to be sad about your babies becoming children , and yet accept the fact that you wo n't have any more .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Anne was sad at the death of the Misses Dolan but too much was happening for her to dwell on it .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Everyone will be sad at their departure .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The truth was that Mr Wolski was sad with himself , for he did not wish to stay on at the Zoo any longer .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was sad about missing the forthcoming whiskies .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I WAS sad and also slightly amused to read the recent letter from a reader about the skilled worker only being offered 3 an hour .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` Madam Speaker , I know that there will be great sadness at this news .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Some grandparents have the sadness of losing rather than gaining grandchildren .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I am saddened that the article uses the spurious connection between dialect and poverty as a means of attacking English teaching in this country .
sadness	artificial_sentences	John Parsons in Nice is saddened to see the former world No 1 humbled in another comeback attempt at the age of 35
sadness	artificial_sentences	We are saddened to learn that for some people , the conference failed to develop strategies for action .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I am saddened to find that such thinking still exists within the profession .
sadness	artificial_sentences	A CLERGYMAN who trains priests yesterday said he was saddened but not surprised that he had been sacked after admitting he does not believe in God .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Rosemary Sandford of Darlington Association on Disability , said they were saddened and disappointed they were not given the opportunity to express their views at the meeting .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He turned away , his feeling of anguish at the nothingness of it all overwhelming him .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She still , after all these years , did not know , and one hand clenched in involuntary anguish at what she thought of as her intolerable betrayal of her brother .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` We feel very strongly about that and that the law should be changed for future children , so that they should be spared the anguish of separation and no contact at all . "
sadness	artificial_sentences	In the pictures of Belsen , the sheer anguish on the faces of the Tommies contrasts starkly with the indifference of the SS recorded in their cheery souvenir albums .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He remembers the anguish of disapproval and the comforting security of guardians .
sadness	artificial_sentences	But last night he insisted he had no grudge against Taylor , even though in his column he openly discussed his innermost anguish at being one of only three England players not to kick a ball during finals .
sadness	artificial_sentences	LEE SHARPE last night relived the anguish of discovering he had a disease which he feared could not only end his career -- but kill him .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Segments in D major and B minor accord with episodes of the drama as this unfolds , but two isolated D minor movements underscore Dido 's anguish at being betrayed .
sadness	artificial_sentences	At a news conference at the Royal Geographical Society in London , they described the mental and physical anguish of their 95-day trek .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Politicians who objected to Mrs Thatcher and her radical conviction politics suffered the anguish of apparently unresolvable frustration .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Both were crestfallen after Stevie 's erratic performance on the 17th .
sadness	artificial_sentences	There 's no reason to feel dejected about the future .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It 's not just health problems they suffer but many people can get really depressed living in houses where they have to keep washing the mould off the walls .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Even the Prince of Wales , depressed at the thought of the ordeal to come , cheered up at the sight of the food .
sadness	artificial_sentences	In spite of everything , Burun felt depressed by the whole affair and could not understand why .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Then , still depressed at being ditched , he drank eight pints on a night out with other squaddies , said prosecutor Graham Boal .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Behind her she heard Emilia say , ` I think the child will be quite desolate to see me go .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I am desolate that Anthony has died .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The sense of relief that the Danes had ` let us all painlessly off the Maastricht hook " was immediately replaced by a despondency at the Government 's response .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Julie is devastated to discover she is adopted and she sets out to find her natural parents .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It was hot , sunny and the water looked so cool and inviting that Maggie felt quite downcast about having no swimsuit .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Dolores felt glum at the sight
sadness	artificial_sentences	The people of America and throughout the world were stunned and grief-stricken by the President 's assassination .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The queen was grief-stricken at his death .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Her emotion this time was not prompted by grief for her mother -- but by the seriousness of the moment .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Kurzlinger hated Voss for what he had done and the man 's grief for his murdered love was not to be underestimated .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Amanda 's grief for her father was compounded by anxiety over his ontological status .
sadness	artificial_sentences	A 16-year-old girl works herself into a frenzy of grief for a friend killed by right-wing vigilantes .
sadness	artificial_sentences	To express their grief over the Warrington atrocity , the people of Dublin sent thousands of floral tributes to Liverpool this morning with the Irish Air Corps .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Within the ranks of the music press , there seemed to be a genuine grief at the split and the band 's loyal followers responded accordingly , filling the letter pages with tearful , doleful sentiment .
sadness	artificial_sentences	In spite of her grief at being parted from her cousins , she could not help but feel excited .
sadness	artificial_sentences	John had been moved to Norfolk and promoted to Corporal and he wrote to Anne nearly every day , loving letters which helped to make her grief for her mother more bearable .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Relatives often carry enormous personal burdens , for example , the grief of losing a child 's expected bright future , or the tragic decline into senility of a loved companion .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was not overwhelmed with grief for Kit , but evidently his eyes felt otherwise .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Her grief at his death was deep and sincere .
sadness	artificial_sentences	And even those could be put down to excessive grief at the loss of his wife .
sadness	artificial_sentences	And -- though the heartbreak of her troubled marriage still haunts her -- she raised a grin as Prince Harry waved from their car in London .
sadness	artificial_sentences	They suffered the heartbreak of losing three children through premature births .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Jane Moss said yesterday that the double heartbreak of her daughter 's death and the murder of her own mum 11 years ago made her want to care for the needy .
sadness	artificial_sentences	For the owner , it can mean heartbreak at the loss of a family pet .
sadness	artificial_sentences	So many families will face the heartbreak of burglary before Christmas .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She regarded the wife of former Beirut hostage Jackie Mann as a ` dear friend' and was heartbroken she could not see her before she died of lung cancer on November 30 .
sadness	artificial_sentences	YEOVIL TOWN captain Mark Shail was heartbroken last night over the rash moment which may cost him the chance of playing in the dream FA Cup tie against Arsenal .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Britt is heartbroken that her eight-year marriage to toyboy husband ` Slim " Jim McDonnell , 31 , is to end in divorce .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She was heartbroken to hear the voice of Camilla .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She 'd be heartbroken if her father was n't at her wedding .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Their mother died a month later , heartbroken by the loss of her mate .
sadness	artificial_sentences	No wonder she was now inconsolable at the prospect of the child being returned to London .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Several hours passed while he sat there , knowing that Maud would be inconsolable at having missed a charity dinner .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Nails became miserable with anxiety .
sadness	artificial_sentences	She 's miserable that it all has to end .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Me , I 'm miserable that it 's all beginning .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Even so , I was miserable when we were second from last .
sadness	artificial_sentences	And I know that 's miserable for you , but what else can you do ? "
sadness	artificial_sentences	` It is miserable for us to look back on these things .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Life , you know , it 's miserable for them .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Thenceforward I was always wanting to take the joys of solitude and of society in their extreme forms , and was alternatively miserable from the lack of company or the presence of uncongenial company .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The walk to the town centre is long enough to invigorate me and short enough to avoid getting miserable from the cold .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I was miserable with cold , but although I was prepared to admit that I was miserable , I was n't prepared to admit that my misery had any connection with cold .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He was miserable at being left out .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Since many parents were miserable at being separated from their offspring and it would be a struggle for some to pay money for their misery , they finally decided to have them home again .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Members requested the committee 's sorrow that the work had begun without permission should be passed on to the county council .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It soon developed into disillusion as the town 's death toll grew and ended in jubilant relief not unmixed with sorrow at the memory of towns-folk who would not return .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Goebbels himself had signed her travel papers under pressure from his sympathetic wife Magda , who had mistaken Lais 's hysterical sobs for sorrow at Karl 's death .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He is portrayed as showing sorrow at the destruction caused by German bombers and it is he who ` saves the day " by first giving himself up and then being shot by Clogger .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Three of our candles are in this colour to represent our sorrow for our failure to love in so many parts of our lives .
sadness	artificial_sentences	The awakened will gives rise to fear of God , sorrow for sin , hope for forgiveness and love of God ( Leah 's first four children ) .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He told of his sorrow at having to quit a job he passionately enjoyed .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Was n't there one word of sympathy he could offer to ease her sorrow at having loved and lost him ?
sadness	artificial_sentences	To his great sorrow he could never recall his mother .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Yet the dog had grown old and less capable , and one day the gillie had come and explained with great sorrow that the dog had suffered a stroke , and must be put down .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Peers expressed their sorrow at the news of the separation of the Prince and Princess of Wales after the Lord Chancellor Lord Mackay of Clashfern relayed the Prime Minister 's announcement to them .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He expressed at once his sorrow for my father 's death .
sadness	artificial_sentences	I join the hon. Gentleman in expressing our sorrow at that tragic loss .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Both of them were aware of Alain 's black anger and Marguerite was feeling the sorrow of leaving her own house .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Despite my anger and despair at what had happened to Brian , killing myself now would n't make amends for not helping him .
sadness	artificial_sentences	He had understood James 's despair at the enormity of the ruin , but not what the loss of Edward was already meaning .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Away from the defence debate Dr Mowlam also yesterday spoke of her despair at the growing homeless problem in her constituency .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Nizan 's despair in 1939 at the Nazi-Soviet pact and the Soviet invasion of Poland echoed Sartre 's despair in 1956 at the Soviet repression in Hungary .
sadness	artificial_sentences	In their communiqu , the finance ministers could usefully point out that the current despair  over eastern Germany is overdone .
sadness	artificial_sentences	It does at times reveal a certain despair over her present situation -- a fact that is rather concerning .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Lewis Verne-Smith sat shaking his head , less as a gesture of denial than of a generalized despair at the state of the world .
sadness	artificial_sentences	` I feel despair at being deceived and betrayed .
sadness	artificial_sentences	Labour supporters must be in despair at not being able to race away from the Tories in the run up to the election .
anger	artificial_sentences	Under de Gaulle , therefore , the Information Minister was a Broadcasting Minister -- to whom the head of state sometimes expressed , day by day , his anger with the content of news and current affairs programmes .
anger	artificial_sentences	I felt a stifled anger against her .
anger	artificial_sentences	For a moment she felt anger at his unfeeling attitude , but common sense prevailed .
anger	artificial_sentences	I was very very angry to read Batty 's comments about Leeds .
anger	artificial_sentences	However , in this case , the crowd was angry that extra time was not going to be played and vented their fury on the pitch and the police rather than on one another .
anger	artificial_sentences	He was angry that Bernard had gone too .
anger	artificial_sentences	For the Opposition , Sam Galbraith said he was particularly angry that the Government was reneging on the ballot subsidy .
anger	artificial_sentences	` You 're angry I 'm here , are n't you ? "
anger	artificial_sentences	` I 'm so angry our little boy is dead because someone wanted to drive fast . "
anger	artificial_sentences	His mother had begun to feel very angry about his refusal to eat as he had started to lose weight , which worried her .
anger	artificial_sentences	Hoskyns , who only had another year to live , was angry at his university .
anger	artificial_sentences	He got quite angry at the impossibility of Clarissa having given any such instructions .
anger	artificial_sentences	A European consumers ' pressure group is angry at the chaotic state of control on such potentially-lethal products .
anger	artificial_sentences	My father used to get so angry at her stubbornness -- not at all like me , used to doing what I was told . "
anger	artificial_sentences	I recall thinking that I had to be home soon or Mother would be angry at me for missing supper .
anger	artificial_sentences	How on earth , when her heart was thumping and her body drowning in a wave of heat , could she stay angry at him ?
anger	artificial_sentences	Connahs Quay were angry over Halkyn 's decision to call off their match at Pant Newydd an hour before the scheduled start .
anger	artificial_sentences	Rachel could see the reasoning behind that , but nevertheless felt angry towards Damian Flint -- not because he had so obviously done the right thing , but because he was so clearly in complete control of a situation that had always been beyond Rachel .
anger	artificial_sentences	When Tony 's father was interviewed he said he felt angry with Tony for having taken the tablets , especially as his girl friend , Pat , had been with him when he found Tony unconscious .
anger	artificial_sentences	However , now he knew she was angry with him for leaving her for so long .
anger	artificial_sentences	My father will be angry with me if you leave early ! "
anger	artificial_sentences	Lissa hated the cold incisiveness of his tone , and she was angry with herself for caring so much .
anger	artificial_sentences	Angry at being separated from Jeanne , Modigliani spent much of his time drinking in a windowless little bar where local artists met , where he drank and ran up debts .
anger	artificial_sentences	Christina blushed , angry at being spoken to like a member of staff .
anger	artificial_sentences	Town 's fans are angry at losing the club 's leading scorer .
anger	artificial_sentences	Out of breath , and furious to note that he was n't even panting , she struggled to free herself , then glared at him .
anger	artificial_sentences	Many of the latecomers , especially as the afternoon wore on , were furious to find the doors locked , not having heard of the noon closure and so thinking they had all day .
anger	artificial_sentences	And she was furious that Mr Clarke did not break the news to her before holding a Press conference .
anger	artificial_sentences	ICC chairman Sir Colin Cowdrey ( left ) is clearly furious that every time he has been ready to make a statement about the Texaco Trophy events of August 23 , Pakistan 's lawyers have threatened writs .
anger	artificial_sentences	A spokesperson said : ` Glen is furious that the new ` Anarchy " promo features footage of Sid Vicious as well as himself .
anger	artificial_sentences	She is furious that he has married beneath him , but appalled when her vicious attack on him threatens to end their relationship for ever .
anger	artificial_sentences	Peter says : ` The Poles were furious that we wanted to show prostitutes in their hotel bar , claiming they never had them .
anger	artificial_sentences	They were furious Mr Reynolds had accused their leader , Des O'Malley , of being dishonest .
anger	artificial_sentences	Mayor 's chaplain Tony Rees was furious he had n't been refunded a 187 overpayment .
anger	artificial_sentences	He refused to be roused by her anger , suspecting she was furious he 'd turned down her invitation to stay .
anger	artificial_sentences	Apparently I was furious I had not been consulted
anger	artificial_sentences	Not only was he going to be absolutely furious about her being in this police station , but she dreaded having to tell her cousin about it too .
anger	artificial_sentences	On another occasion he had been struck once by another man at work and we were furious at him for not returning the blow .
anger	artificial_sentences	Behind the scenes , British diplomats in Seoul , Korea were furious at the way last night 's meeting was handled .
anger	artificial_sentences	She is furious at the betrayal ; and supporters of the sacked prime minister , Nawaz Sharif , have resorted to fisticuffs .
anger	artificial_sentences	But today , the Oxford University Sports Director was furious at her exclusion .
anger	artificial_sentences	Somerset are furious over suggestions that ` The Ghost " , who took 8 for 122 , should be left out .
anger	artificial_sentences	She was furious with me .
anger	artificial_sentences	At the hostel they were furious with us for bringing the police , they just wanted us out , literally , and we were out !
anger	artificial_sentences	He was furious with me for ringing him .
anger	artificial_sentences	Furuseth was furious with himself .
anger	artificial_sentences	US banks , which also lost heavily , were furious with the Bundesbank for refusing to compensate them .
anger	artificial_sentences	Conner is still furious about losing Tuesday 's protest .
anger	artificial_sentences	She would be doubly furious at having been deceived in exactly the same way by two successive men .
anger	artificial_sentences	The king was furious at being tricked again , and by nothing more than a pair of animals , at that .
anger	artificial_sentences	He was incensed , stunned , at her action , and stood rigid with anger as he felt the slime roll down his cheek .
anger	artificial_sentences	A gang of local ruffians was passing by and , when they saw what was happening , became infuriated against Richard Baxter .
anger	artificial_sentences	I go along and watch women 's football and get really infuriated to see a man out there refereeing the game , and often in a very condescending manner !
anger	artificial_sentences	The sources said he is infuriated with her after a row that erupted last week , and is likely to distance himself from her .
anger	artificial_sentences	I was suddenly infuriated at the thought of what we had believed about the Germans in England .
anger	artificial_sentences	I was even more infuriated to read that their short separation was a ` tragedy " .
anger	artificial_sentences	And while she sounded sympathetic , she was in reality infuriated with Doreen .
anger	artificial_sentences	His teachers were suspicious of his popularity , annoyed by his lack of interest in academic work and infuriated that he could still achieve high marks in examinations .
anger	artificial_sentences	I am spell-bound by the sound of French , infuriated when I ca n't read it in the books I am given .
anger	artificial_sentences	` Then you can do so today -- at the barbecue , " Lucy hissed , suddenly infuriated with them both , although more so with Silas than with Doreen .
anger	artificial_sentences	` I 'm infuriated with myself , " he gritted from behind clenched teeth , his scowl deepening .
anger	artificial_sentences	Mrs Rosenbloom nearly always found out about it and she would be mad that he had taken me from my work with the children .
anger	artificial_sentences	They must be mad that they should expect such a delicate business as his preparation of Vologsky to be speeded up as though it was a crude operation on a factory bench .
anger	artificial_sentences	Gazza was blazing mad that his training ground ` discussion " had been mis-interpreted as a bust-up .
anger	artificial_sentences	` Jane , my darling , it 's not because she 's mad that I hate her .
anger	artificial_sentences	In fact I expect he 'll be mad I 've told you that much . "
anger	artificial_sentences	He gets mad when Gary does n't sleep , he says it 's my fault , he says I make him do it  and   She stopped again .
anger	artificial_sentences	` I was so mad when your father tried to twist my arm .
anger	artificial_sentences	I was mad about her being killed , mad at whoever killed her .
anger	artificial_sentences	Philip was mad at himself for not taking the cutters off the boy .
anger	artificial_sentences	He says old Plumpton gets mad at them .
anger	artificial_sentences	He must be pretty mad at her for not being at home when they arrived .
anger	artificial_sentences	` You 've got every right to be mad at me , Mike .
anger	artificial_sentences	And I 'm mad at you , you 've no ambition .
anger	artificial_sentences	The other day he slapped Liam across the face and got mad at me when I complained .
anger	artificial_sentences	She was still mad at Lucy for something , and Lucy was sure that a little time and concentration would tell her what  but for the moment , somehow , the knowledge was just out of reach .
anger	artificial_sentences	` I thought perhaps you were still mad at me . "
anger	artificial_sentences	` Because she still sounded mad at me , and I thought you might try to dissuade me .
anger	artificial_sentences	If my Mam got mad with me for something I 'd done -- or more often something I had n't done -- she used to make moaning noises and stagger about the house as if she was dying .
anger	artificial_sentences	Jack was mad and even madder with the American scandal magazine the National Enquirer , too , although that was nothing new .
anger	artificial_sentences	Last night Mr Smith said : ` We are mad with this programme , and especially with Barth .
anger	artificial_sentences	Lucy knew she had to tell him something , so she said , ` She got mad with me when I admitted you 'd taken me for two bush walks .
anger	artificial_sentences	Hywel was glaring mad at having to put a suit on .
anger	artificial_sentences	Israel is also miffed by Kohl 's plan to visit the walled Old City of east Jerusalem without Mayor Ehud Olmert .
anger	artificial_sentences	One minister was miffed yesterday when he found his seat occupied by a journalist talking to a fellow cabinet member before the meeting began .
anger	artificial_sentences	Ev ans was miffed at the comments and openly wondered why Bennett did n't show some respect .
anger	artificial_sentences	The staunchly pro-monarchist Daily Telegraph said BBC chairman Marmaduke Hussey , whose wife is a lady-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth II , is miffed that no one told him about the interview .
anger	artificial_sentences	Prosecutors were clearly miffed that several businessman changed the statements they had given during investigation of the case .
anger	artificial_sentences	Indonesian officials were somewhat miffed Friday when the mayor of Hanover , Herbert Schmalstieg , took the occasion of welcoming Suharto to lecture him about human rights violations in Indonesia .
anger	artificial_sentences	--- The descendants of Sir Isaac Newton are miffed that former prime minister Maragaret Thatcher has included the 17th century discoverer of gravity on her personal coat of arms , to represent learning .
anger	artificial_sentences	Stock investors were not miffed by the frantic currency markets .
anger	artificial_sentences	The rebel Serbs were miffed that Bildt planned no trip to their stronghold of Pale , east of Sarajevo .
anger	artificial_sentences	The rebels --- who want the government to recognize them as a legitimate force of change --- were miffed that the bill referred them in vague terms , such as `` dissenting groups in Chiapas . ''
anger	artificial_sentences	The Chinese president was said to be miffed when the administration refused his request for a state visit at the White House , complete with star-spangled welcoming ceremonies and a black-tie dinner .
anger	artificial_sentences	HELSINKI , Finland ( AP ) --- A Finnish orchestra on Friday completed recording a work by composer Jean Sibelius that vanished a century ago because he was miffed by criticism .
anger	artificial_sentences	Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon get miffed because her establishment will replace two of their favorite hang-outs .
anger	artificial_sentences	Mexico , too , was miffed because the Telmex telephone company can not gain entry to the American marketplace .
anger	artificial_sentences	O'Neal seemed miffed by the whole affair .
anger	artificial_sentences	He also was miffed that World Tour organizers did not contact enough players before going public .
anger	artificial_sentences	Clearly miffed at the failure of their resolution , the Communists opened an attack Thursday on another front , threatening to torpedo the 1997 budget by refusing to take part in the final vote Friday .
anger	artificial_sentences	LAUSANNE , Switzerland --- The IOC is miffed that baseball has n't opened the sport to professionals for the Olympics .
anger	artificial_sentences	Some people simply were miffed by the red tape in applying for victim identification cards to qualify for the 100,000 yen .
anger	artificial_sentences	Brazil , for example , was miffed that the summit was n't scheduled for a date after inauguration of its new president next month .
anger	artificial_sentences	Diehard fans might be miffed at some of what 's left out , but it 's tough to argue against any of the songs included .
anger	artificial_sentences	The Washington-based report said the queen was miffed that Clinton had missed the recent V-E Day commemorations .
anger	artificial_sentences	The Direktor felt , not for the first time , deeply resentful of the fact that they had any part in choosing the programme .
anger	artificial_sentences	Strangely , she felt more resentful of this lady 's peremptory commands than she ever had of those of the merchants ' wives she had previously been obliged to swallow .
anger	artificial_sentences	The newcomers feel cold-shouldered by the local population on occasions and become resentful of their almost tribal clannishness .
anger	artificial_sentences	The men got resentful of the women working all hours in the co-op .
anger	artificial_sentences	She disliked the intimacy he showed towards some of them , was resentful of the memories they shared of which she was not a part , and felt excluded .
anger	artificial_sentences	Gloom and despondency hung over the royal party and Anne was more than a little resentful of having been required to join them in sanctuary .
anger	artificial_sentences	Germans were resentful of France 's post-war attempts to keep them under close control , and it could not automatically be expected that they would agree to join European institutions .
anger	artificial_sentences	In the 1940s wives were still bitterly resentful of the fact that their husbands did not seem to realise that they needed leisure .
anger	artificial_sentences	They must have been amazed and resentful that Pyke wanted to listen to me , of all people , someone who was barely an actor .
anger	artificial_sentences	` I do n't feel resentful that God has decided to take me before my allotted span .
anger	artificial_sentences	Many of the youngsters feel resentful that society is kicking them out .
anger	artificial_sentences	The Germans themselves , reported William Shirer , seemed glum and resentful at the prospect of war .
anger	artificial_sentences	He made a good living , and seemed resentful of his wife 's decision to take in a lodger .
anger	artificial_sentences	Gina glared across the table at him , uncomfortably aware that he was the source of her unreasonable impatience , and resentful of the effect his presence was having on her .
anger	artificial_sentences	She seemed nervous at first , then almost resentful of the older woman 's presence .
anger	artificial_sentences	The British , however , remained suspicious of American motives , and resentful of their advice .
anger	artificial_sentences	Informed by the queen-dowager of their decision , resentful at being refused permission to return home , Anne made her displeasure plain .
anger	artificial_sentences	Leonora lay rigid in his arms , resentful of being carried about like a bundle of laundry .
anger	artificial_sentences	I tried to show pleasure at their decision and at the same time annoyance that our contract simply would n't permit it .
anger	artificial_sentences	That comes after growing Irish annoyance at the continued failure of the British to ensure that the RUC accompanies the UDR on all its operations .
anger	artificial_sentences	She spoke quietly in Greek to the boy , soothing his annoyance at the turning off of the video .
anger	artificial_sentences	Ronni got in , feeling a welcome dart of annoyance at the way he had issued that curt command .
anger	artificial_sentences	But her annoyance over the pictures could not distract Catherine from her latest -- and biggest -- ambition .
anger	artificial_sentences	Serena is torn between her sisterly love and her annoyance with Stella 's aggressive insecurity .
anger	artificial_sentences	THE Banishing Gripes campaign highlighted the public 's annoyance with British Gas for the inconvenience caused by digging up roads .
anger	artificial_sentences	But , despite his annoyance at being seeded No.2 to Baddeley even though he is the present No.1 , he declined to labour the point afterwards .
anger	artificial_sentences	My annoyance at missing the fish turns to relief when I realise I am not snagged in the roots .
anger	artificial_sentences	Suppressing her annoyance at being called " Little Sara " , she replied that all was well .
anger	artificial_sentences	The Profit Share Scheme was reduced in 1992 but many members have expressed great annoyance that another scheme within the Bank netted two former members of the staff in Britain almost 218,000 between them .
anger	artificial_sentences	Although this is hardly the headhunter 's fault , the candidate will naturally feel annoyance or even anger that his or her expectations have been raised and then dashed , often without much explanation .
anger	artificial_sentences	By this time , Mattie was feeling irked , not by Urquhart but by O'Neill .
anger	artificial_sentences	Berthon was livid at one of his cars being butchered but had to acknowledge that it handled better .
anger	artificial_sentences	One farmer was livid that he could not go into his local National Park and chop wood for his barbecue .
anger	artificial_sentences	Livid with rage , he grabs their cameras and rips the film from them , tearing it to shreds and throwing it in the fire .
anger	artificial_sentences	` Pa would 've been livid with me for getting pregnant , and he would n't want his precious fiddle going to pay for anything to do with it . "
anger	artificial_sentences	No-one could have told from his face that he was absolutely livid with Sukey , but he did n't want a row , which would upset Daisy and gee Perdita up before the interview .
anger	artificial_sentences	Mr Brown was livid at the way 1 billion in precious foreign reserves was poured down the drain during the sterling fiasco a fortnight ago .
anger	artificial_sentences	The Sheffield Wednesday striker was livid at finding himself back on the bench just 28 minutes after being sent on as a second-half substitute at Norwich on Saturday .
anger	artificial_sentences	A stranger to the district , coming over a brow of the hill , would have stopped astonished and perhaps a little peeved to see Ploughman 's Lane lying beneath him .
anger	artificial_sentences	Morrissey was obviously peeved at The Smiths continued existence as a relatively small ` cottage industry " .
anger	artificial_sentences	I dare say a few prize juries might be peeved at having their judgment queried , too .
anger	artificial_sentences	She thought she had given him a very tricky word , one that he would n't yet have learned , and she was peeved that he had succeeded .
anger	artificial_sentences	They 're also pretty peeved at what they see as the Ministry of Agriculture 's failure to represent their interests adequately in Brussels .
anger	artificial_sentences	` Why ? " sighed Petrova , a little peeved that her deductions were now proving wide of the mark .
anger	artificial_sentences	I was peeved to see Robert Kilroy-Silk credited with inventing the egg trick in a recent colour supp. profile .
anger	artificial_sentences	` I think your friend Billy and his fellow commandos were a bit peeved to find themselves here after the horse had bolted , so to speak . "
anger	artificial_sentences	In fact , now you come to mention it , I 'm a little bit peeved with her .
anger	artificial_sentences	She was cross at the way he had treated her as though she were n't a normal girl -- some kind of freak .
anger	artificial_sentences	Both her mother and Lisa had been cross with her ; they both had felt she ought to settle down .
anger	artificial_sentences	They were cross with each other because of him , and now Nanny was saying bad things about Smallfry that would make Buddie very , very angry .
anger	artificial_sentences	And then , unable to be cross with him for long , you shift your feelings over to the critic .
anger	artificial_sentences	He said he was cross with you because you keep calling him Mr Vass . "
anger	artificial_sentences	Her father was cross with her , if not downright angry , and she felt like weeping inside .
anger	artificial_sentences	" Do n't be cross with Jenny , " James said almost reading her mind .
anger	artificial_sentences	If she did n't know him better , she would have said he was cross with her .
anger	artificial_sentences	Perversely , she was cross with him for having survived when she had spent the weekend fretting .
anger	artificial_sentences	She said : ` Do n't be cross with them .
anger	artificial_sentences	Except when he gets cross with us sometimes .
anger	artificial_sentences	I think he was in a hurry and was cross about being stopped , " said an eyewitness .
anger	artificial_sentences	He is cross at having to come here when his time with Enid is so short .
anger	artificial_sentences	Having already paid for my return ticket I was cross at having to buy another one , and even more upset at having to pay extra for the one-way ticket and convert sterling at an unfavourable rate .
anger	artificial_sentences	Darling Bob , do n't be cross if I have n't got it right , but is it one of your beloved American writers ?
anger	artificial_sentences	The members of the branch were indignant that the government should have planted two spies among them .
anger	artificial_sentences	I began to dislike her ; she looked sly and I felt indignant that she 'd spoken to me like that .
anger	artificial_sentences	` He deserves a proper thrashing , " Cissie protested , fiercely indignant that she had been unable to defend herself while her cowardly brother took delight in whipping her .
anger	artificial_sentences	Thora is a strong supporter of Help The Aged , and highly indignant that older people are often treated differently the moment they become pensioners .
anger	artificial_sentences	Jess felt faintly indignant at the remark .
anger	artificial_sentences	I felt indignant at this casual assumption .
anger	artificial_sentences	At first Anne felt indignant with Joe , but when she thought it over , realised the good sense of his warning .
anger	artificial_sentences	The waitress returns , now indignant with her boss for his bought-and-paid-for apathy .
anger	artificial_sentences	By now the priest was becoming exasperated with the child who in turn was becoming ever more stubborn by the minute .
anger	artificial_sentences	There was a woman who wanted me to call her mother , and then called me awkward , exasperated and frightened with the dreams and the screams .
anger	artificial_sentences	` There is exasperation that it is taking so long .
anger	artificial_sentences	Mr Patten , however , is engaged in more than simply relieving his own exasperation at Beijing 's procrastination .
anger	artificial_sentences	In recent months a growing number of federal judges and lawyers have voiced their exasperation with America 's approach to drugs .
anger	artificial_sentences	It was a mixture of amusement and exasperation with her friend , with worry added .
anger	artificial_sentences	Richard Nixon repeatedly expressed his exasperation at having to work with an unresponsive bureaucracy .
anger	artificial_sentences	And as the aspirations of the various professions , of students , of the ` third element " rose , so did their exasperation at continuing official inefficiency , corruption and oppression .
fear	artificial_sentences	But Downing Street mandarins grew so alarmed at reports of a snub yesterday that the text of private diplomatic traffic , a telex sent by Mr Clinton on Saturday , was made public .
fear	artificial_sentences	Not unexpectedly , the residents of Chiswick became alarmed at the prospect , but the acquisition proceeded of the properties on the proposed route .
fear	artificial_sentences	Franco became very alarmed at this and told him to put his money away immediately .
fear	artificial_sentences	But Hartington soon became alarmed at the plans to give increased powers to what he termed ` fanatical local authorities " , and he wrote to Rosebery asking him to withdraw support for the measures .
fear	artificial_sentences	The veterans have become increasingly alarmed at the incidence of illness -- especially cancers amongst the 20,000 who were present at the tests .
fear	artificial_sentences	Since the war the CIA has been very alarmed at some of the left-wing British governments , many of whose politicians it regards as friends of Moscow .
fear	artificial_sentences	As a gentleman of considerable physique , Guttersnipe is naturally alarmed at such prejudice against the nutritionally challenged .
fear	artificial_sentences	Strachan was alarmed at the way the German defence manhandled the 33-year-old front-runner and got away with it .
fear	artificial_sentences	Small children of two or three tend to be alarmed at a banana-skin fall , not amused yet .
fear	artificial_sentences	Sonny , alarmed at the deathly pallor of his half-sister 's face , had jumped into the trap and had driven furiously to the village for the doctor .
fear	artificial_sentences	Both sisters looked alarmed at the thought of possible further deterioration .
fear	artificial_sentences	In reality , they may have been more anxious and worried than they showed .
fear	artificial_sentences	He is so anxious about being accepted that he is trying to be extra good and even perfect . "
fear	artificial_sentences	However , I am not now so anxious about my sister being left with Seor Mitchell .
fear	artificial_sentences	And you feel anxious about getting the first lot of seeds sown out of doors .
fear	artificial_sentences	George felt anxious that he had had no opportunity to be alone with Tamar , and so there had been no chance of warning her about the groom .
fear	artificial_sentences	The next morning I awoke anxious over what had happened .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was distressed and anxious at being separated from her friends , and rapidly developed colic .
fear	artificial_sentences	Many people are deeply concerned about the neglect of crofting land .
fear	artificial_sentences	Mr Hamilton said : ` I am deeply concerned at what you have told me and I shall ask for immediate steps to be taken for normal decencies to be observed . "
fear	artificial_sentences	Kagan was deeply concerned that his access to the child was limited .
fear	artificial_sentences	The president was more concerned about the loss of jobs .
fear	artificial_sentences	People are becoming more and more concerned about the healthiness of their diet and way of life .
fear	artificial_sentences	` To be honest , I 'm more concerned about getting a good night 's sleep , " says a pregnant woman , who 's working full-time at a demanding job .
fear	artificial_sentences	Most were more concerned with the courts being ` too lenient " .
fear	artificial_sentences	` We 're particularly concerned about the increase in incidents involving youngsters of 11 and 12 , especially girls , " said founder Regina Dollar .
fear	artificial_sentences	` I 'm gratified to find you so concerned for my welfare , Li Yuan .
fear	artificial_sentences	Relatives , too , seem concerned about lack of communication and the ` unavailability of the nurses " .
fear	artificial_sentences	They do care about others and are concerned about their country 's future . "
fear	artificial_sentences	He was concerned that to include the large Asian countries in such a scheme would introduce problems that the small nations could find difficult to resolve .
fear	artificial_sentences	These problems can vary in intensity from parents concerned about how to wean , to parents ' neglecting and underfeeding their children .
fear	artificial_sentences	He was concerned that parents would want to see their children doing ` real " maths , and advised injecting investigations into the existing syllabus instead .
fear	artificial_sentences	That is encouraging , yet we are concerned that people are still getting fatter .
fear	artificial_sentences	We are very concerned to learn of any shortfall in standards and this is why we want to hear from you if you encounter any problems .
fear	artificial_sentences	No-one seemed concerned that the museums , the temples of culture and art , were subjected to such indignities .
fear	artificial_sentences	I was a little concerned that you put so much emphasis on return to work .
fear	artificial_sentences	He was concerned that the room must be left just as Durance would have wished .
fear	artificial_sentences	Mr Carruthers said that the vast majority of evidence was over but acknowledged he was concerned that Mr McTear would not be able to conclude his testimony .
fear	artificial_sentences	He 's concerned what will happen to me . "
fear	artificial_sentences	In 1986 the local authority became concerned about injuries which D had sustained and they obtained a place of safety order .
fear	artificial_sentences	How could she be concerned about the choice of jam ?
fear	artificial_sentences	I am concerned about my seven-year-old son .
fear	artificial_sentences	Because they 're concerned about America 's oil dependence , senior government officials have come to rub shoulders with the advocates of conservation and alternative power sources .
fear	artificial_sentences	A third group of backbenchers is concerned at cross-media ownership in the new channels under the bill .
fear	artificial_sentences	The Training Sub-Committee is extremely concerned at the amount of pressure Trainers are under and feel there is an urgent need for a group of people to begin training now .
fear	artificial_sentences	David is concerned at the length of time he says it took for an ambulance to arrive .
fear	artificial_sentences	John 's father came down from Cheltenham to see her , grieving and concerned for her future .
fear	artificial_sentences	A son should be concerned for his father 's health . "
fear	artificial_sentences	` Are you telling me you were concerned for my soul ? " she mocked .
fear	artificial_sentences	Police became increasingly concerned for their prisoner 's health over the weekend .
fear	artificial_sentences	Concerned as to whether he was adequately looking after himself , but especially concerned as to his future as a writer .
fear	artificial_sentences	In the aftermath of the war the government was said to be concerned over Turkey 's increasingly prominent international role .
fear	artificial_sentences	The note said Imro was concerned there might be ` similar undetected shenanigans " in other occupational pension schemes .
fear	artificial_sentences	She felt disquieted at the lack of interest the girl had shown -- anything might happen in this sort of house , she told herself indignantly .
fear	artificial_sentences	Disquiet at the new direction of religious affairs soon surfaced in parliament , and over the next few years a growing number of MPs began to speak out against the Arminian threat .
fear	artificial_sentences	There is indeed much disquiet at any delay in immediate fulfilment .
fear	artificial_sentences	People in the popular movement had a different kind of disquiet with the leadership of the PLO .
fear	artificial_sentences	Some economists feel deep disquiet at the use of food grains to produce motor spirit .
fear	artificial_sentences	I 'm so frightened the feeling will go away , it 's too fragile , and I do so want it not to break .
fear	artificial_sentences	The RSPCA says they will now try different tactics , attempting to gain the animals trust so they 're not so frightened of people .
fear	artificial_sentences	So we moved to Haddenham for peace and quiet but now it starts here and we 're very frightened we shall be driven away from here because you ca n't live with that noise .
fear	artificial_sentences	That 's why I 'm not frightened of your report . "
fear	artificial_sentences	Our , most of our rules and most of our laws are made by people who are frightened of losing their property , and not the sort of people who are frightened of being mugged at night .
fear	artificial_sentences	You 're frightened to go to sleep .
fear	artificial_sentences	As Antoinette grew weaker , and left her bed hardly at all , she became frightened to be left alone .
fear	artificial_sentences	` And I 'm frightened that if I go down to the cellars I might die . "
fear	artificial_sentences	` You 're not just frightened for Lucy .
fear	artificial_sentences	I 'm frightened for him .
fear	artificial_sentences	Then we killed her , and I felt frightened of her .
fear	artificial_sentences	Feeling a little frightened of the dead body behind him in the cart , and depressed by the autumn fog , he stopped for some beer at a pub , where he met Jan Coggan and Laban Tall .
fear	artificial_sentences	` I am horrified that somebody would do such a thing .
fear	artificial_sentences	She stopped , horrified at what she had been about to say .
fear	artificial_sentences	The Repton boy 's horror at Churchill 's anti-Bolshevist campaign had turned into a more adult and less ferocious criticism .
fear	artificial_sentences	As the war dragged on Modigliani 's horror at the waste of life increased .
fear	artificial_sentences	To me that puts us in a difficult position when trying Germans , whose crime was obeying their superiors " orders , whatever our horror at what those orders led to . "
fear	artificial_sentences	Emmeline grew pale , both from horror at Bastide 's plight and her own .
fear	artificial_sentences	Thus the dialogue and its frame emphasize the bond between the two of them , and thereby further underline the horror of the sacrifice of which they speak .
fear	artificial_sentences	For Williamson , only soldiers who had fought in the war , and who understood the horrors of modern conflict , could save Europe from further disaster .
fear	artificial_sentences	Nothing could wash away the beastliness of that house or the horror of the sight of Phyllis Henley 's body , but he felt the need to try .
fear	artificial_sentences	I am interested in hearing from women about their fascination and horror with cars , especially women in the Yorkshire region .
fear	artificial_sentences	Horror by gunfire differs little from horror inflicted by the guillotine , sword or wheel , it seems , and sheer bestiality lurks only fractionally below the veneer of so-called civilized societies .
fear	artificial_sentences	Both are designed to convince the readership of the horror of the subject-matter .
fear	artificial_sentences	It was as if Gillray 's avaricious monarch was more of an affront than the voluptuary suffering from the horrors of dissipation .
fear	artificial_sentences	Alison had shown enough respectable horror on discovering that he was married to prove she was a nice girl .
fear	artificial_sentences	Imagine my horror at seeing her step out followed by a man !
fear	artificial_sentences	` You can imagine our horror at finding a false ceiling in a secure establishment and ducts like this .
fear	artificial_sentences	To see him fumbling with our rich and delicate language is to experience all the horror of seeing a Svres vase in the hands of a chimpanzee .
fear	artificial_sentences	Stanley Spencer had been through the war ; he had experienced the horror , the vulgarity , of war .
fear	artificial_sentences	France expressed horror at the assassination and appealed for unity to assure peace in the country it once ruled .
fear	artificial_sentences	The Government have expressed their horror at such attacks on the police , but they also need to act .
fear	artificial_sentences	Then she felt horror and pity at seeing Marcus so confused and so evidently useless .
fear	artificial_sentences	Under danger , in the dark , one feels a kind of particular horror at finding oneself alone .
fear	artificial_sentences	I am an extremely lazy cook and nervous of long recipes , complicated sauces or anything risky such as a souffl .
fear	artificial_sentences	If you are really nervous of being out and about , invest in a personal alarm , which you should carry in your hand at all times .
fear	artificial_sentences	There is too much busyness in schools , staff need ` dream time " too and also the security to try out ideas without becoming nervous about making mistakes or being afraid of failing .
fear	artificial_sentences	Some individuals become excessively nervous about visiting the vet , for example , and it is a good idea to begin visits early in the dog 's life .
fear	artificial_sentences	Agony ` I had no time to feel nervous about facing Steve Bull and Andy Mutch .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was nervous of all Men , and preferred to be with the women of the Court .
fear	artificial_sentences	A king not universally popular , who owed his throne to assassination , must have been sensitive on such an issue , and maybe sometimes nervous of joining large assemblies of armed men .
fear	artificial_sentences	But they are also nervous that the calculations they make in the next two weeks may determine who will win and lose the political battles of the next two years .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was nervous that he might change his mind at the last minute , but he did not do so .
fear	artificial_sentences	Why people , nervous that their little town was being made into a prime nuclear target , should be less nervous for getting a closer look at the cause of their fears is a question not easily answered .
fear	artificial_sentences	How nervous the teacher feels about using this teaching unit .
fear	artificial_sentences	Her brightness was forced and she was clearly nervous at what might be about to happen .
fear	artificial_sentences	His landlady was nervous of strangers and called through the door , ` I 'm sorry , Mr Ramsey is out . "
fear	artificial_sentences	Rescued dogs are often somewhat nervous of people , and yet may also become excited to see you , when you have been out , for example .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was not nervous of Martin Bean .
fear	artificial_sentences	Libel lawyers are nervous of the word " lie " because it implies that a person said something which he knew was untrue .
fear	artificial_sentences	Nervous for Meh'Lindi 's safety ?
fear	artificial_sentences	Meera was a little nervous about having her hair coloured so Chris used the non-permanent Colour Touch .
fear	artificial_sentences	Good if you are nervous about making a permanent change .
fear	artificial_sentences	` It 's actually made me quite nervous about being in London .
fear	artificial_sentences	The only time I have ever been bitten was when running with a partner who was petrified of dogs .
fear	artificial_sentences	Bob Halton , not guilty enough , but confused by his mother 's spoiling and manipulative efforts to keep him for herself , is petrified of being taken over completely .
fear	artificial_sentences	` Money is my motivation , but what keeps me at the top is that I 'm petrified of losing .
fear	artificial_sentences	The Americans were petrified of Communism , and believed Communists were aiming for world domination , via the ` domino effect " of one country after another falling to it .
fear	artificial_sentences	I was petrified of having the same thing as my mother did .
fear	artificial_sentences	He was petrified of the clippers at first .
fear	artificial_sentences	He was still more worried about the extensive rewriting of history that school text-books had been subjected to ; something of which most of us remained unaware until after the Second World War .
fear	artificial_sentences	Children at Wanborough primary school near Swindon are so worried about the hazards they experience on the way to school , they 're calling for a new footpath .
fear	artificial_sentences	ALAN Hickman from Derbyshire became worried about the advice he was receiving over his pension transfer when he realised that each expert he consulted recommended a different course of action .
fear	artificial_sentences	The price was recognised as much too low and many insurers became worried at the apparent undervaluation of their organisations .
fear	artificial_sentences	Harry was a little worried to see the water supply diminishing so rapidly but was pleased that Lucy was enjoying herself .
fear	artificial_sentences	Our relationship does seem to be improving but obviously I 'm worried that we now seem to be paying 50% more than we expected .
fear	artificial_sentences	` South Africa must be worried how easily we did get through , and close to their line , because they know that Will Carling and Jeremy Guscott are amongst the quickest in the world .
fear	artificial_sentences	Richmond councillors are worried about plans to turn the old cinema on the Ryders Wynd/Queens Road junction into a DIY shop .
fear	artificial_sentences	He felt a bit worried at this and started to question her .
fear	artificial_sentences	Chatterton did not sound unduly worried at that prospect .
fear	artificial_sentences	She was also worried about having to manage the farm by herself again .
fear	artificial_sentences	It could well become agitated at the dispersal of the pigeons , turn its head towards the lights , and bark heatedly at the roadworkers .
fear	artificial_sentences	On the Left there was some dismay that the reforms were not more dramatic , and especially that wealth was not redistributed more equally .
fear	artificial_sentences	Tom Shakeshaft , who is 15 , reveals his dismay at plans to drive a dual carriageway right through the beautiful piece of countryside where he lives .
fear	artificial_sentences	I had always assumed that this sort of civilized dismay at barbarism was the monopoly of our cause .
fear	artificial_sentences	My own dismay at the way those kids were savaging the flora of Stonethwaite is a good example .
fear	artificial_sentences	She nearly gasped with dismay at the shock that shivered down into her tummy .
fear	artificial_sentences	We huddle beneath the covers , but to our dismay , the one duvet is but a slim pink layer of fabric resembling a furniture cover .
fear	artificial_sentences	Anybody who swears allegiance to United must share the same sense of dismay at what has happened , and what is still going on -- for me , it 's almost a sense of revulsion .
fear	artificial_sentences	Many supporters of Dr McNab exchanged glances of dismay at the words they had just heard .
fear	artificial_sentences	Since the war began , Soviet military commentators , including senior serving officers , have been expressing dismay at seeing Iraq 's army , most of whose tanks and aircraft they supplied , pounded so relentlessly and effectively .
fear	artificial_sentences	Her face must have registered dismay at having to tell Peter what had happened , for he gave a narrow smile .
fear	artificial_sentences	Bishop Gray was very quick to speak out and express his ` dismay and extreme disappointment " at the announcement of Cammell Laird 's closure .
fear	artificial_sentences	The court expressed dismay that Wiltshire Social Services had called in a voluntary agency -- the NSPCC -- to help look after him .
fear	artificial_sentences	But he was dismayed , in the circumstances , to see Gabriel ride off the moor and up the street in the company of a young monk .
fear	artificial_sentences	As a food and store safety officer , I felt dismayed and frustrated to see in the Journal , members of staff wearing inappropriate jewellery and , in high risk areas , all hair not kept within hats .
anger	tweets	meeting tiff at the mall soon, congrats on getting that L babes❣
anger	tweets	Anger that you are willing to take out on people &amp; the world in general, &amp; ALL #police, is WORST, most indefensible kind of #anger.
anger	tweets	Anger that you are willing to take out on people &amp; the world in general, &amp; ALL #police, is WORST, most indefensible kind of .
anger	tweets	@_Mrs_Peel @lp_lisa @PaulRGoulden @LisaLuscious Might be the pout of a star baker tho !
anger	tweets	He's seriously so frustrating sometimes! (╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻ #ugh #raging
anger	tweets	He's seriously so frustrating sometimes! (╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻ #ugh
anger	tweets	@Sirenja_ @JaxOfBo (like, hope i didn't offend with my commentary - it wasn't what I was intending!)
anger	tweets	@PAULROVlA the first resulted in me angrily sobbing and ranting about finnick in the cinema
anger	tweets	#Pain is an aspect of #human evolution; the evolution of #consciousness. #attachments #desire #apathy #sentimentality #tears #fury #anger #O
anger	tweets	#Pain is an aspect of #human evolution; the evolution of #consciousness. #attachments #desire #apathy #sentimentality #tears   #O
anger	tweets	i used to think the fire detector going off at my old place when boiling water was bad but this one went off bc of DUST and wouldnt turn off
anger	tweets	@Claymakerbigsi @toghar11 @scott_mulligan_ @BoxingFanatic_ Fucker blocked me 2 years ago over a question lol - proper holds a grudge old Joe
anger	tweets	Fucking hell. Rush for the damn train also no use. Fucking 4min wait. Still sweating. #rage #smrtruinslives
anger	tweets	Fucking hell. Rush for the damn train also no use. Fucking 4min wait. Still sweating.  #smrtruinslives
anger	tweets	@politicalTigres @Saifullah_Uchvi welcome ji . sorry for words that irritate u
anger	tweets	dammit @TMobile whays going on!!! 😤😤😤😤 lol  #smh #mobilefails
anger	tweets	dammit @TMobile whays going on!!! 😤😤😤😤 lol #raging #smh #mobilefails
anger	tweets	People are #hurt and #angry and it's hard to know what to do with that #anger Remember, at the end of the day, we're all #humans #bekind
anger	tweets	@grumpy_pumper I involuntarily smile when you frown in photos. And giggle. How annoying!!
anger	tweets	@Markk1872  Red heads are more fiery.
anger	tweets	@Kristiann1125 lol wow i was gonna say really?! haha have you seen chris or nah? you dont even snap me anymore dude!
anger	tweets	@MisterAK47 it's very telling that racist bigots always resort to the insult 'fag' like that's worse than being a racist bigot.
anger	tweets	@brooklynbreeder \nI could not believe that their answer to his outrage was that they were right. I do hope he takes them to the cleaners.
anger	tweets	im 16 if you want to see my dick snap/kik me at hiya2247 😘 #kik #kikme #snapchat  #snapme #horny #porn #naked #young
anger	tweets	im 16 if you want to see my dick snap/kik me at hiya2247 😘 #kik #kikme #snapchat #snap #snapme #horny #porn #naked #young
anger	tweets	How on earth can the projection of all that is good and happy and true in my soul be a poisonous fucking snake? #patronus #adder #offended
anger	tweets	How on earth can the projection of all that is good and happy and true in my soul be a poisonous fucking snake? #patronus #adder
anger	tweets	bows are world of tank creats rubberbath sting weeks of
anger	tweets	@iAmSJ I'm so mad for our clients I'm furious lmao
anger	tweets	the Bushes were good with the forces of resentment when it made them money and gave them power. Now that it doesn't they've changed tunes.
anger	tweets	I'd pay good money to watch someone slap that pout off Candice.
anger	tweets	@Lizombi There's a difference though. A grudge cab be tamed. Feeling uncomfortable is pure emotion, you can't really control it.
anger	tweets	Hell hath no fury like a sound technician scorned'\n\nThat's the quote right
anger	tweets	Hell hath no fury like a bureaucrat scorned. ― Milton Friedman
anger	tweets	Wow... One of my dads top favorite throwback rappers just died in a fiery car crash today in Atlanta, so sad so sad 😷😷
anger	tweets	Undifferentiated otherwise patent closest patron braininess ideas that incense the offensive lineman: wHYaNEWG
anger	tweets	tbh amy i don't know why you need to sort your life out, it's looks like your having a great time' thanks tiff 😂💜
anger	tweets	@CNNnewsroom @BrookeBCNN What can't you grasp? Besides yr cognitive dissonance, raging away. Each. Incident. Re: LEO-shooting = SEPARATE.
anger	tweets	Feel the wrath of my air-dropped pamphlets!
anger	tweets	Okay you've annoyed me, you haven't done a good job there at all.
anger	tweets	Okay you've annoyed me, you haven't done a good job there at all. #furious
anger	tweets	Losing the will 2 live with @virginmedia business bb gone down on hold for 23 minutes &amp; whoever picked up cut me off #fuming #NoWorkForMe
anger	tweets	Losing the will 2 live with @virginmedia business bb gone down on hold for 23 minutes &amp; whoever picked up cut me off  #NoWorkForMe
anger	tweets	Now that the n word is normalized by the media? Just wow. No words for this . No. Words. For . This. Frog been boiling in the pot via media.
anger	tweets	@Arsenal Giroud's beard is making me angry.
anger	tweets	@theGenghisJon You had to do some research to come up with new insult.  Are you allowed to read anything but brietbart?
anger	tweets	#IndiaMissingIndira that she could never solve Kashmir Problem and kept it burning for Vote Bank\n#TerrorStatePak
anger	tweets	Don't chase fame\nif you're going\nto resent it\nwhen it starts\nchasing you'\nWRDSMTH
anger	tweets	@lericoo 35. Do you hold a grudge against your ex?
anger	tweets	@washingtonpost#Trump's #fear &amp; #anger are similar to what #Hitler preached to come to power in Germany. Wake up America!!
anger	tweets	@RussellHartness @Mariners @BlueJays :  Wrongdoing!  Grrr.  After the fact, I know, but emailing displeasure now anyway .
anger	tweets	@Kailyew hahah tiff sent me that too😂
anger	tweets	@JaredWyand Maybe if it was transgender the media would cover it #outrage
anger	tweets	@JaredWyand Maybe if it was transgender the media would cover it
anger	tweets	I either look like a raging bitch, or I'm obnoxiously laughing at something not that funny. I don't think there's any middle ground.
anger	tweets	Being #relentless is absolutely the only way to success. Never, ever, ever give up!
anger	tweets	I'm not use to getting up early asf this shit goin irritate me.
anger	tweets	@RossKemp watching on +1. I would have been straight out of there with the guy who was getting irate! #ExtremeWorld
anger	tweets	@jbiggy13 @ToneCapone111 ya and the d was what I was most confident about..... our offense is as good as it's been in 20 years...our d sucks
anger	tweets	Men in rage strike those that wish them best.  #emotions #negative #positive #wish #strike #martial #arts #control #believe #best #hope
anger	tweets	Extremely bitter about the fact that the Subway in Robart's has been replaced with a low-rent version of Chipotle
anger	tweets	@Mysbananen yes hc and we got him very low. I know how it feels. Our damage is low enough as it is never mind having the rng of being enrage
anger	tweets	Ultimately, #KeithScott wasn't the man they were there to hand an arrest warrant to. That's what we know. That's enough to cause outrage.
anger	tweets	@TalkTalkCare  how on earth can I send an email to you? Very annoyed customer!!! #fuming
anger	tweets	@TalkTalkCare  how on earth can I send an email to you? Very annoyed customer!!!
anger	tweets	@MartinClouseau - as CEO of a charity you could reasonably expect @eduardo_LACS not to attempt to crudely inflame tensions.
anger	tweets	@DP3520 lol they are madden tubers u dont know nothing bout madden cuz id smash on you
anger	tweets	Look what we have available in store now!!!\n\nLiquid incense for those who can't burn sticks or cones or have smoke in they home!!!!
anger	tweets	Honestly fuming
anger	tweets	@happyandbashful @Teigngardener @CEVokins @gardengirllucy Don't provoke the Voke.
anger	tweets	@alour @jkramon1313 you should force your neighbours to pay that!  Those people have some nerve!!!  #Victim
anger	tweets	Everyone is raging
anger	tweets	Connie's fuming at Bake Off and went 'fuck this I'm starting on the vodka'
anger	tweets	No respect for people who force their opinions on to others yet get offended when someone does the same to them 😂
anger	tweets	@CBSBigBrother she's pathetic!!! Hated Nicole for being cute &amp; having a showmance &amp; she couldn't get one! #bitter #uglycry #BBMichelle 😖
anger	tweets	@GroovyBruce @larsrjs44 @AshvsEvilDead the 'groovier' part is an affront to common decency. No way @VancityReynolds agrees.
anger	tweets	@emilieragann did another bee sting you on the tongue ?
anger	tweets	@natalie_bloomer You interviewed one irate group, two filmmakers who don't live here and got stock statements. That's not journalism.
anger	tweets	🏆 #Success is the best #revenge. Whatever you're thinking about doing ... do something better. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
anger	tweets	James: no 500k, no 50k, no 25k, no 10k. You fucked up. #bb18 #bitter  #shouldofVotedforNicole
anger	tweets	James: no 500k, no 50k, no 25k, no 10k. You fucked up. #bb18  #shouldofVotedforNicole
anger	tweets	These people irritate tf out of me I swear 🙄 I'm goin to sleep ✌🏾️
anger	tweets	Probably gonna end up seriously poorly at some point soon, so tired, and go from freezing to boiling in the space of seconds
anger	tweets	me: wow today's such a good day \n*an hour later: burns food, gets sick, spills boiling hot water on myself*\nme: never mind
anger	tweets	Blood is boiling
anger	tweets	i already gets aggravated too fast like why aggravate me on purpose?
anger	tweets	@DonnyMurray I'm just no offended by stuff.We're gettin a situ where folk moan about the Polis/SNP but then happy to snitch when offended...
anger	tweets	#Azerbaijan #Baku Azerbaijan to prevent another Armenian provocation in Russia
anger	tweets	@Matt_Lat fuming ain't the word
anger	tweets	I heard Movie Bob was furious about the Skittles analogy. He was upset that there wasn't actually any Skittles.
anger	tweets	Who the hell is drilling outside my house?! Literally got to sleep at half four after a busy shift and these twats have woken me up
anger	tweets	Who the hell is drilling outside my house?! Literally got to sleep at half four after a busy shift and these twats have woken me up #fuming
anger	tweets	10 minutes with an incense and all I get is 2 Rattatas. 😂#PokemonGO
anger	tweets	@bassekraah. @sunilddesai @jyoti1013 @Archnahr . A2: #irritation and isolation #lifenabler
anger	tweets	@Cass_Pennant @frankbrunoboxer @WestHamUtd @davidgold @MaccaFrank @JonjoHeuerman @WestHamMagazine @CasualMind_ @karren_brady it's an insult.
anger	tweets	Joes gf started singing all star and then Joe got angry and was all sing it right and started angrily singing it back at her
anger	tweets	#DonKing lion of #black community speaks truth to power of @POTUS insult 'black vote is given away cavalierly...playing by (@TheDemocrats)'
anger	tweets	@BI_Science Opioid rapid pill plague...Speed generations Pulse Rapid rabid Impairment Ist Choice Stacked usage vs street ingestion demo US
anger	tweets	@cameronNewton #colinkaepernick protests because of the unjust murder of #keithlamontscott in North Carolina #injustice #outrage #speakout
anger	tweets	@cameronNewton #colinkaepernick protests because of the unjust murder of #keithlamontscott in North Carolina #injustice  #speakout
anger	tweets	@TobyIrish1 Yes but you were specifically fuming about him not signing enough people
anger	tweets	#BB18 Michelle crying  again #shocking #bitter He's  just not that into you 😢#TeamNicole
anger	tweets	And Republicans, you, namely Graham, Flake, Sasse and others are not safe from my wrath, hence that Hillary Hiney-Kissing ad I saw about you
anger	tweets	just waggled my eyebrows up and down at the baby and she burst out laughing i love her haha
anger	tweets	Ive always wondered how long Angelina put up with Brad's crap. Not gon lie 😐
anger	tweets	Ive always wondered how long Angelina put up with Brad's crap. Not gon lie 😐 #bitter
anger	tweets	You boys dint know the game am I the game... life after death... better chose and know who side you on before my wrath does come upon us😤😤😤
anger	tweets	Changed my clothes at work and had my pre-workout..  In route to the gym and there is traffic all over - pre workout kicking in.. #rage
anger	tweets	Changed my clothes at work and had my pre-workout..  In route to the gym and there is traffic all over - pre workout kicking in..
anger	tweets	I just killed a spider so big it sprayed spider guts on me like a horror movie.\n #ugh
anger	tweets	@Uncle_Brown22 yeah dude! Appreciate the #support! #Notorious on ABC, peep it! #grateful #relentless
anger	tweets	@Uncle_Brown22 yeah dude! Appreciate the #support! #Notorious on ABC, peep it! #grateful
anger	tweets	Don't be offended,\nI'm just doing something that,\nGives your life more hurts.\n\n#haikuchallenge #offend #poetry
anger	tweets	Don't be offended,\nI'm just doing something that,\nGives your life more hurts.\n\n #haikuchallenge  #poetry
anger	tweets	I can't have a dog in my flat! Literally no reason either! Sorry potential doggie! #landlords #doglover #sad #angry #rescuedog #dog ;_;
anger	tweets	@interception225 you're looking for an argument that i'm not engaging in. He's not even speaking his own words, i'm not raging at him.
anger	tweets	@simondawkins23 @Titchlar81 clicked the wrong side was fuming 😭
anger	tweets	@laray_jenkins2 @SportsInsights yeah I know it unless our offense can get something going. That's a big if
anger	tweets	#ParentsofAddicts: let #wellness be your #revenge! -Al Anon speaker
anger	tweets	@andrew_jrt I don't really understand the burst and semi auto version bc the damage doesn't change so those are essentially useless
anger	tweets	@tommyrosen @InTheRoomsCEO @cate_baily Always so happy to support you brother. Keep that fire burning &lt;3
anger	tweets	@MJPWGaming exactly not some flaming reject from fast and furious
anger	tweets	@macmel19 come play madden at my house after school
anger	tweets	I swear I got anger issues but my heart big AF...
anger	tweets	as someone that's struggled w EDs since i was 7y/o, i resent everyone who's making a spectacle of a certain youtuber who has severe anorexia
anger	tweets	@TheJuanWilliams Where is your indignation and outrage over the UNARMED DEAF WHITE man who was shot and killed by black officer in CLT, NC?
anger	tweets	I just poured boiling water on my foot.. now my cup of tea is less enjoyable, but worse my football career is foiled.
anger	tweets	Janice Griffith snap story  😍😍😍
anger	tweets	@atheist_taco @DrJillStein :^) well cucks among her ranks agree equally about their outrage of black youths shot and harambe.
anger	tweets	I'm much to full of resentment
anger	tweets	That last #madden commercial 😆😆😆😆😆😆 #TNF
anger	tweets	@Plasma_Assassin @ArmouredDove @BallsOnY0u N-no. Because of your wrath.
anger	tweets	@dreamsandpocky Like, despite all my irritation towards ur ship, at least its canon. BuckyNat is canon, (and clintwanda is canon)
anger	tweets	whenever i pout i just want Adrian to appear and tell me to stop pouting or else
anger	tweets	@Supergold2002 Terence- got a lot of anger issues from my family and school.
anger	tweets	Stk is expensive but i'f rather take a bigger female there than tiff. You all see how slim she is and how she loves to eat.
anger	tweets	@LethalWeaponFOX promised I wouldn't live tweet, but  @DamonkWayans + @ClayneCrawford brought it! @JordanaBrewster and #furious action FTW!
anger	tweets	I think it's time to change my #irate motif, now that #TalkLikeAPirate Day is over, but...Pirate Minion is so cute, I don't want to. 😟
anger	tweets	interesting that we,an Authentic Afghan Restaurant,R getting calls from the media over resent tragedy that happened in NJ@latimes @NBCNews
anger	tweets	You ever just be really irritated with someone u love it's like god damn ur makin me angry but I love u so I forgive u but I'm angry
anger	tweets	ramos does what he does best burning haters with his head
anger	tweets	@Apple thanks for ios10 update, even the best app @telegram freezing and crashing on SE. #angry
anger	tweets	@Apple thanks for ios10 update, even the best app @telegram freezing and crashing on SE.
anger	tweets	not near my kitchen so unfortunately I cannot do a cooking snap series 🍳
anger	tweets	Does Bret have a point? Cena, Balor, sting...
anger	tweets	revenge
anger	tweets	@jackmegawphoto what if lives are attached to real estate? Shall I come trash your cameras because I'm angry with what your race is doing?
anger	tweets	@EmmaHobbs1 I did that! 3 days later my order isn't even in the same postcode as me #fuming
anger	tweets	@EmmaHobbs1 I did that! 3 days later my order isn't even in the same postcode as me
anger	tweets	This makes things easier and compact and less fiery or burdened by the weight of sexuality. One releases in the transmutation
anger	tweets	@JordySloan love that Jordy #revenge ⚽️
anger	tweets	@matthew_meadows Since it's a friend of Pereg's I don't want to offend :) #Peace
anger	tweets	Just love Matthew Parris! Political rage is good!
anger	tweets	I'm not sure if burning and looting really can positively impact a community
anger	tweets	The book im riteing about wots happond has made them moor angry but im not here to plese man or hide the eval deeds of some
anger	tweets	@Andy1129298 @hopheaddarrell fingers of fury!
anger	tweets	Every day I think my #house 🏡 is #burning 🔥 but it's always just my neighbor burning their #toast! 😷😡🍞
anger	tweets	Professor: introduce yourselves and say one interesting fact\n\nHi I'm Ethan and the Sun will engulf our planet in a fiery explosion one day
anger	tweets	@RelUnrelated While I do not see Sailer Mars being a raging liberal, I doubt that she would say such a thing.
anger	tweets	He who is affected by an insult is infected by it.
anger	tweets	@RogueFatale Oh, you insult me! What, you think just because I look like this, I'm psycho? I'm more sane than most Gotham freaks...
anger	tweets	You insult the late Sherri Martel
anger	tweets	Seeing double am so tired but I always grudge getting off my phone at night 🙄
anger	tweets	@baileygazteacow NO. The gay guy and the dad revenge fucking
anger	tweets	@sarahhiggins90 @lokiscottishrap So much animosity towards Loki who is fighting the same battle as you. Surely not the best use of energy.
anger	tweets	maps by the yeah yeah yeahs came on the radio today and i almost burst into tears
anger	tweets	Just saw lil homie @NICKMERCS rage on cam.  Weren't roids a thing in the late 90's or has it come back? I'm lost...
anger	tweets	Stupid people piss me off...busted my ass...and my coworker takes off with all the tips...thnx for nothing #angry #thatsmyluck
anger	tweets	Stupid people piss me off...busted my ass...and my coworker takes off with all the tips...thnx for nothing  #thatsmyluck
anger	tweets	But if you wish to live bitter because your guilty conscience made you think it applied to you as well then that's on you, I'm not sorry💁🏻😊
anger	tweets	@KClarkSC2 @JohamasSC2 with their faggy colors are nice' is ok too. Even tho some might take offense because WORDS LOL.
anger	tweets	Can we get a shot of Lingys face at 1/4 time ? Pretty sure it would be more red then his hair #fuming #pretendinghesok #ruok #AFLCatsSwans
anger	tweets	Can we get a shot of Lingys face at 1/4 time ? Pretty sure it would be more red then his hair  #pretendinghesok #ruok #AFLCatsSwans
anger	tweets	@LindaStein1 Me too,I really hope the writers decide to give us an return to McDanno we all love w/o resentment &amp; animosity fingers crossed
anger	tweets	kenny - where were you born\nme - washington\nkenny - you fucking liar you were born in the fiery pits of hell
anger	tweets	I am their fury. I am their patience. I am a conversation.
anger	tweets	@MintMilana where is the outrage when black children get killed in the crossfire between blacks shooting each other?
anger	tweets	@CPPSmeofficial tiff.
anger	tweets	I bet @mmunro91 is fuming with our draw 👀
anger	tweets	Will I offend you\nif I am truthful but kind\nor will you see why?\n@baffled #haikuchallenge #offend
anger	tweets	Will I offend you\nif I am truthful but kind\nor will you see why?\n@baffled #haikuchallenge
anger	tweets	@StrangeFacesLA why doesn't this account follow me #offended
anger	tweets	@StrangeFacesLA why doesn't this account follow me
anger	tweets	i swear to god the worst drug is loving someone. physical withdrawals aren't that bad, emotional withdrawals sting a little more
anger	tweets	@HuffingtonPost huff i know your pro-hillary and so is CNN and MSNBC, but they made no mention of this, this statement would be gold for em
anger	tweets	@Christelle_C Actually, wait, I do, the constant outrage thing gets on my wick sometimes and it happened to flick my annoyance today. :)
anger	tweets	He's mixing it up pretty well..using that slider pretty affective so far #thebabybombers #yankees #offense
anger	tweets	He's mixing it up pretty well..using that slider pretty affective so far #thebabybombers #yankees
anger	tweets	@lmench i'm actually offended by it.  naming the most fattening sandwich after a man who died of coronary disease likely due to his diet?
anger	tweets	ya girl is #bitter
anger	tweets	ya girl is
anger	tweets	Another loss to city in the cup next 🙈 😂😂 cmon united! #revenge
anger	tweets	Another loss to city in the cup next 🙈 😂😂 cmon united!
anger	tweets	Stuck in a infuriate scrum about hegemonists.  #scrum #scrum #Stuck
anger	tweets	Stuck in a infuriate scrum about hegemonists. #infuriate #scrum #scrum #Stuck
anger	tweets	Boy oh boy! our weekday schedule is crazy! But no matter how tired I am I do whatever it takes to keep the smile on Kai's face from a frown
anger	tweets	Like he really just fucking asked me that.
anger	tweets	Like he really just fucking asked me that. #offended
anger	tweets	Who allowed Pereira to start taking all the set pieces? fuming
anger	tweets	@robert7019 @itzamadhouse @skyler12388\r\ralso celebrate THEIR belief that Jesus is alive in hell, boiling in a pot of shit (actual shit)
anger	tweets	So fucking mad my blood boiling.
anger	tweets	@1BearTruth standard bitter response .... how's it feel to be the small club in a big city
anger	tweets	I be trying to not stay playing madden and 2k 17 but its just so addictive 😭😭
anger	tweets	@AshitaNoJoe55 i m not a big fan of @mkatju , but what i found logical and right.. i support that... no offense to anyone
anger	tweets	I am their fury. I am their patience. I am a conversation. 💙❤️✨
anger	tweets	Dude go out his way to irritate me🙄🙄 that's why I go out my way to not give up any pussy🙅🏾🅿️
anger	tweets	@kylemuir17 @Ealvarezfight @danawhite @TheNotoriousMMA he'll defend his belt against aldo after its not that hard u grudge holding bitch
anger	tweets	@CallofDuty how do u guys determine teams? Cause I'm 80% on shitty teams when I play and I'm fuckin over it #cod
anger	tweets	@CallofDuty how do u guys determine teams? Cause I'm 80% on shitty teams when I play and I'm fuckin over it #cod #rage
anger	tweets	Not by wrath does one kill, but by laughter.  Friedrich Nietzsche #friedrichnietzsche
anger	tweets	@ggreenwald What if the supposed animosity is all bullshit to con the Iranians?
anger	tweets	Will BYU's offense score 24+ vs WVU?
anger	tweets	Id love 2 c Gyimah in action but his coach is holding a grudge against him!
anger	tweets	Forgiving means operating with God's spirit &amp; God isn't unforgiving &amp; doesn't hold a grudge. So who am I? Exactly.
anger	tweets	i've got a lot of tokens saved up and i wanna spam the event song but my eyes sting im so tired
anger	tweets	How the fu*k! Who the heck! moved my fridge!... should I knock the landlord door. #angry #mad ##
anger	tweets	So my Indian Uber driver just called someone the N word. If I wasn't in a moving vehicle I'd have jumped out #disgusted
anger	tweets	@DPD_UK I asked for my parcel to be delivered to a pick up store not my address #fuming #poorcustomerservice
anger	tweets	so ef whichever butt wipe pulled the fire alarm in davis bc I was sound asleep #pissed #angry #upset #tired #sad #tired #hangry ######
anger	tweets	Don't join @BTCare they put the phone down on you, talk over you and are rude. Taking money out of my acc willynilly! #fuming
anger	tweets	My blood is boiling
anger	tweets	When you've still got a whole season of Wentworth to watch and a stupid cunt in work ruins it for us 😭😭 @__KirstyGA #raging #oldcunt
anger	tweets	@bt_uk why does tracking show my equipment delivered, when it wasn't? Why is my service suddenly delayed? We've already 3 weeks. #fuming
anger	tweets	@TeamShanny legit why i am so furious with him, people are such fucking idiots.
anger	tweets	How is it suppose to work if you do that? Wtf dude? Thanks for pissing me off.
anger	tweets	im so mad about power rangers. im incensed. im furious.
anger	tweets	Wont use using @mothercareuk @Mothercarehelp again!! These guys cant get nothing right!! #fuming
anger	tweets	Bitches aggravate like what inspires you to be the biggest cunt known to man kind?
anger	tweets	Why does @dapperlaughs have to come to Glasgow on a night I am working. I am fucking gutted, been waiting for an appearance for ages #raging
anger	tweets	Fuking fuming 😤
anger	tweets	Zero help from @ups customer service. Just pushing the buck back and forth and promising callbacks that don’t happen. #anger #loathing
anger	tweets	@ArizonaCoyotes not to mention the GRA guy stops me but let's the 2 ppl in front of me go. WTF. My blood is boiling.
anger	tweets	I hate my lawn mower. If it had a soul, I'd condemn it to the fiery pits of Hell.
anger	tweets	why are people so offended by kendall he ends photo shoot like seriously shut the fuck up
anger	tweets	I'm about to block everyone everywhere posting about the storm. I think everyone is aware of the damn rain and what not so quit. #damn
anger	tweets	Making my buddy cry !! Bitch wait for revenge 🤗👌🏻
anger	tweets	Bes! You don't just tell a true blooded hoopjunkie to switch a f*c@n' team that juz destroyed your own team. You juz don't! #insult
anger	tweets	I got a NO RESPONSE again from an #irate customer of #amazon 😞😞\nwhy can't they understand that it's not always amazon fault..\n#carrierfault
anger	tweets	Tasers immobilize, if you taser someone why the fuck do you need to shoot them one second later?! This is really sick! #rage #wtf  #murder
anger	tweets	@LeKingCoq @MistaAggy @GiovanniiDC The way my blood is boiling, little bastards!
anger	tweets	Actually fuming I have nothing to wear Saturday
anger	tweets	.@DIVAmagazine than straight people. Even the arse straight guys who think that means a threesome is fine. #angry #fuming
anger	tweets	Bloody parking ticket 😒💸 #fuming
anger	tweets	You ever just find that the people around you really irritate you sometimes? That's me right now 😒
anger	tweets	I get so angry at people that don't know that you don't have a stop sign on Francis and you do at Foster #road
anger	tweets	This fuck you is boiling up inside, its not gonna be good when I let it out.
anger	tweets	@VodafoneUKhelp @VodafoneUK wow!! My bill is £44.77 and hav a text from u to prove that and you have taken £148!!!!! #swines #fuming #con!
anger	tweets	I blame the whole season on Natalie! The season would have been so different had she not turned her back on her alliance! #pissed
anger	tweets	Since the 'update' my @iPhone loses power nearly 40% faster.  #furious
anger	tweets	@bringyouhome2 I'm about to fly into a fit of rage it's not FAIR
anger	tweets	Unbelievable takes 10 minutes to get through to @BarclaysUK then there's a fault and the call hangs up #fuming #treatcustomersfairly
anger	tweets	@ggreenwald @SusanSarandon We are blaming 5% of the fucking idiots who are putting the World in the middle of their tantrums. You are one.
anger	tweets	@SunandBeachBum 'you people' infuriate me!
anger	tweets	@rtrn94 Mine is that the party did decide but the party has been slowly transformed into a vengeful hell-cult of white male resentment
anger	tweets	So #angry about my @WishShopping order. 6 #months ago I placed an order of over $500. Card billed. Never #received \n#disappointing
anger	tweets	Still can't log into my fucking Snapchat#Snapchat #snap
anger	tweets	@ThomsonCares Sam- yes we have! Not helpful at all! We need this sorting ASAP! You keep promising stuff that doesn't happen!!!! #fuming
anger	tweets	SOMEONE LET SNAKES IN MY HOUSE, I BET IT @Ya_Boi_Huck I KILL THAT BUGGER WHEN I GET MY HANDS ON HIM #rage #HuckFP2
anger	tweets	so ef whichever butt wipe pulled the fire alarm in davis bc I was sound asleep #pissed  #upset #tired #sad #tired #hangry ######
anger	tweets	Why does @dapperlaughs have to come to Glasgow on a night I am working. I am fucking gutted, been waiting for an appearance for ages
anger	tweets	i feel furious
anger	tweets	Some Mexican ladies irritate the fuck outta me. Have a their own lil preschool of fucking kids for the welfare &amp; allllat smh.
anger	tweets	Still can't log into my fucking Snapchat #Snapchat
anger	tweets	I blame the whole season on Natalie! The season would have been so different had she not turned her back on her alliance! #pissed #bitter
anger	tweets	People irritate my MF soul
anger	tweets	Im so angry 😂🙃
anger	tweets	People fuckin irritate me
anger	tweets	@leesyatt you are a cruel, cruel man. #therewillbeblood #revenge
anger	tweets	That way ur so angry you can literally feel ur blood boiling
anger	tweets	@KatzeAnilothei this amount of greedy mooching makes me snarl.
anger	tweets	My mind is raging and i just want to end it all
anger	tweets	Absolutely fuming that some woman jumped into my prebooked taxi and drove off 😡
anger	tweets	I'm nothing but a hateful and bitter fag
anger	tweets	@FitnessFirstAU something needs to be done about people hogging machines - nobody can use 3 machines at one time! #angry #notfair #whypay
anger	tweets	@JrDingy96 Ikr people still got a grudge against him for no reason like wtf?!
anger	tweets	@lynnew69 then he said talking about wills uncontrollable animals when moving to another link. These comments do not help! #fuming
anger	tweets	@paulbushnell25 @EE bad news if ordered online it hasn't gone through same happened to me had to re order on the phone #furious
anger	tweets	So angry I wanna cry😢😢😢
anger	tweets	OOOOOOOOH MY GOD UUUUGGGGHHHHHHHHH
anger	tweets	Boycotting @DunkinDonuts till butter pecan comes back. I am furious
anger	tweets	In 2016, Black people are STILL fighting to be recognized as human beings. #cantsleep #angry
anger	tweets	my mom cut my phone off and I'm so furious 🤗
anger	tweets	Once again the only thing on my feed is naay raging about something and my brother filling in all the gaps
anger	tweets	can't believe Achilles killed me! #angry
anger	tweets	I lost a couple niggas I want revenge so put me in coach
anger	tweets	@mjmralph then it's poor packaging my Amazon and the fulfilled seller should be furious as much as you 😕
anger	tweets	Where's your outrage when a black man kills another black man in the streets?
anger	tweets	it makes me so fucking irate jesus. nobody is calling ppl who like hajime abusive stop with the strawmen lmao
anger	tweets	Absolutely fuming I've just scratched all my car 😡😡😡😡😡😡
anger	tweets	@Ms_HeartAttack holy shit it just a bee sting like fuck you're not dying
anger	tweets	How the fu*k! Who the heck! moved my fridge!... should I knock the landlord door.  #mad ##
anger	tweets	I dislike people who get offended by the littlest shit .
anger	tweets	What the fuck am I supposed to do with no lunch, no dinner, no money and I'm off to work #furious #hangry #day5
anger	tweets	@justyne_haley it does. if one person ruins season 13 for me, I will be so angry
anger	tweets	What the fuck am I supposed to do with no lunch, no dinner, no money and I'm off to work  #hangry #day5
anger	tweets	@firstleeds not only are your buses unreliable your e ticket app is too unable to get on two buses and late for work #fuming #useless reply
anger	tweets	So my Indian Uber driver just called someone the N word. If I wasn't in a moving vehicle I'd have jumped out #disgusted #offended
anger	tweets	The liberal outrage over don king saying the N-word really angers me. The white yuppie progressives can go fuck themselves, shame on blacks
anger	tweets	Just paid for chicken at @panerabread and didn't even get any 😑😑😑 there goes 4 dollars and me as a customer #angry
anger	tweets	but that was a mistake and a half assed excuse and now here i am burning in hell forever
anger	tweets	@ManUtd you have had from me over the years is irrelevant. Its an absolute joke. #manutd #ticketing #fuming #noloyalty #joke #notimpressed
anger	tweets	@hollyrobinson__ Part 2-was buzzing for a cheeky squashie or two-this was NOT what i expected.SORT IT OUT! #food #angry  @coopuk @coopukfood
anger	tweets	Tasers immobilize, if you taser someone why the fuck do you need to shoot them one second later?! This is really sick!  #wtf #murder
anger	tweets	Bes! You don't just tell a true blooded hoopjunkie to switch a f*c@n' team that juz destroyed your own team. You juz don't!
anger	tweets	@ChurdAllan fucked my coupon that goal! #raging
anger	tweets	LVG bribed all the refs against Utd for his own personal revenge. That was a foul you prick.
anger	tweets	Now that the whole clown rage has scared me shitless, I'm gonna go cry in my room
anger	tweets	Worst juror ever? Michelle. You were Nicole's biggest threat. #bitter #bb18
anger	tweets	Your twitter picture just makes me fume.
anger	tweets	@leesyatt you are a cruel, cruel man. #therewillbeblood
anger	tweets	That's really it for my madden career that game sucks , ea sports does a piss poor job every year on that shit
anger	tweets	@NeoFundie @fitchest Ha. Right. I'm from San Jose, CA, and I was offended right there with you. Dave, go on a walk or something next time.
anger	tweets	@FitnessFirstAU something needs to be done about people hogging machines - nobody can use 3 machines at one time!  #notfair #whypay
anger	tweets	I wonder what American city will be next to protest about police shootings. Who's next? Smh. #whenwillitstop #angry #howmanymoretimes
anger	tweets	@politico @realDonaldTrump another angry white man!
anger	tweets	Have wee pop socks on and they KEEP FALLING OFF INSIDE MY SHOES #rage
anger	tweets	The majority of people irritate the fuck out of me, cba with people ahahah
anger	tweets	@oscar_perria a multimillionaire spoiled brat who gets In a self righteous huff bc his friend is Muslim is a non starter bye!
anger	tweets	Wont use using @mothercareuk @Mothercarehelp again!! These guys cant get nothing right!!
anger	tweets	@kingvee_ don't provoke me to anger
anger	tweets	You complain all the time and then wonder why people never want to see you. You acc rile me up. Stfuuu!!!!
anger	tweets	Bloods boiling
anger	tweets	Leave it on there, rule,nimber 1 of carpet cleaning!!! #furious #worsethananatomicbomb #accidentlyspillbeeronthecarpet
anger	tweets	@DarkLuneFantasy wallah my blood is boiling I need to take a nap ugh
anger	tweets	I swear if @devincameron23 blocks me I'm going to hit her back
anger	tweets	@jennylhowe I am angry at the student for being a racist, and the teacher for not stopping it, and at the class for letting it go by.
anger	tweets	I'm about to block everyone everywhere posting about the storm. I think everyone is aware of the damn rain and what not so quit. #damn #rage
anger	tweets	I'm just a fuming ball of anger today 🙃
anger	tweets	I didn't find out about this till today due to my bff telling me. I am so disgusted and offended by this.
anger	tweets	@VerizonSupport thanks for saying My wife and I were getting our iphones today and then losing both of them with no ETA #thanks #angry
anger	tweets	A @FirstBSA not turning up? Why am I not surprised. Late for work again! #fuming
anger	tweets	Police Officers....should NOT have the right to just 'shoot' human beings without provocation. It's wrong.\n\n@ORConservative @MichaelaAngelaD
anger	tweets	angry already
anger	tweets	... flat party and I instantly get bollocked about it. #fuming
anger	tweets	@XemitSellsMagic add tracking but resent them
anger	tweets	@FoxNews @SheriffClarke @FoxNewsInsider This man is an affront to our justice system.
anger	tweets	SOMEONE LET SNAKES IN MY HOUSE, I BET IT @Ya_Boi_Huck I KILL THAT BUGGER WHEN I GET MY HANDS ON HIM  #HuckFP2
anger	tweets	@ChronAVT ummm, the blog says 'with Simon Stehr faking 7th'...I'll expect an investigation forthwith. This is an #outrage
anger	tweets	@GroupAnon black armed thug with a record carrying gun illegally gets shot by black cop. #outrage   This is a joke.Let em destroy their town
anger	tweets	..... wakes up and says 'have you tried changing her nappy?' 😡👊🏼 #rage!!!!
anger	tweets	Someone needs to tell Candice she'll be stuck with that shitty pout if the wind changes. #GBBO
anger	tweets	@brian5or6 turn that shit off!   Home Button under Accessibility. \n\nWhen did innovation become mind fuckery? . #iphonePhoneHome
anger	tweets	I just love it when people make plans for me without actually including me in this process #rage
anger	tweets	@ggreenwald Smh, remove ideologically bankrupt and opportunistic establishment now. They're burning all bridges and social contracts. #anger
anger	tweets	@brendancoots where's your outrage that your party nominated a lying, corrupt person? And received donations from nations who support terror
anger	tweets	@edquinn63 how can you even forget to pick ur fave child up from school #offended
anger	tweets	I get so angry at people that don't know that you don't have a stop sign on Francis and you do at Foster #road #rage
anger	tweets	@soyoprincess they irritate me. Them and their inch thick made up masks
anger	tweets	@ChurdAllan fucked my coupon that goal!
anger	tweets	How was Natalie one of the top three favorites?! #toofaced and #bitter 🙄
anger	tweets	@dcexaminer Democrats and their voters have zero tolerance for honesty. They associate honesty with anger and hate.
anger	tweets	@gerfingerpoken #rage?? The #CrookedCourt said #rage MANY times to explain away the brutal killings of #Petits by #Hayes &amp; #Komisarjevsky
anger	tweets	To'Why can't we brothers protect one another? No one's serious, and it makes me furious. Don't be misled, just think of Fred.' #mayfield
anger	tweets	..... wakes up and says 'have you tried changing her nappy?' 😡👊🏼 !!!!
anger	tweets	@ManUtd you have had from me over the years is irrelevant. Its an absolute joke. #manutd #ticketing  #noloyalty #joke #notimpressed
anger	tweets	All hell is breaking loose in Charlotte. #CharlotteProtest #anger #looting
anger	tweets	There's this Bpharm4 guy Eish that guy brings anger into my life. When I see him nje like darkness fills me @RamatsobaneM will know
anger	tweets	i had an hour of football practice under the boiling sun and now i have 2hr volleyball practice under the BOILING SUN AGAIN
anger	tweets	testing #angry
anger	tweets	@WatcherDev @WarcraftDevs put so much artefact points into fury and cant raid... literally wasted 1 month of my life! Thanks blizzard
anger	tweets	How is it suppose to work if you do that? Wtf dude? Thanks for pissing me off. #furious
anger	tweets	i was angry.
anger	tweets	That feel when you travel 700 miles to pick up a form that arrives in the post two days after you leave. #fume
anger	tweets	@cineworld 'Congratulations your Free 1 month has been activated' Then charges £34.80 the same month. Absolutely furious 😡
anger	tweets	@tmz @HarveyLevinTMZ   Hell hath no fury like a women scorned.    It's the affair.  Not the parenting
anger	tweets	straight people are canoodling on the quad and I'm #offended
anger	tweets	I can definitely feel my irritation today, lord give me strength
anger	tweets	@RobertTaitWHU against Chelsea anything is possible haha. I'm fuming about that bet 🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄🙄
anger	tweets	When you break a record in #madden I wish it didn't say the same shit after every rush like you just broke the record. #shutupphilsimms
anger	tweets	@DFSCare apparently you are to contact me. Sofas were meant to be delivered today. Old ones gone. Sitting on floor. No sofas! #fuming
anger	tweets	I have 1000 rabid grizzly bears I'm going to scatter in neighborhoods all over America.\n\nThey're poor refugees!\n\n#InYourNeighborhoodNotDC
anger	tweets	@oreillyfactor why dont #blm #thugs want #justice when its black on black #gang crime? They only #rage and cry #racism when its a #cop
anger	tweets	@mandyjohnson I'll be honest.. I hope that annoying Southern bint with the 'look at me' pout goes out this week! Selasi #FTW
anger	tweets	Zero help from @ups customer service. Just pushing the buck back and forth and promising callbacks that don’t happen.  #loathing
anger	tweets	@mdivincenzo9 he's stupid, I hate him lol #bitter
anger	tweets	@SkyUK what a joke!! Cut our internet off early 'by mistake' and then don't reinstate it when we no longer need an engineer 😡
anger	tweets	@Slippus @PureGym  yeah I received a fine today which I am furious about, currently appealing it after being a member for so long...
anger	tweets	People irritate me 🙄
anger	tweets	Men in rage strike those that wish them best. #rage #emotions #negative #positive #wish #strike #martial #arts #control #believe #best #hope
anger	tweets	In 2016, Black people are STILL fighting to be recognized as human beings. #cantsleep
anger	tweets	I swear if @devincameron23 blocks me I'm going to hit her back #revenge
anger	tweets	@SkyUK what a joke!! Cut our internet off early 'by mistake' and then don't reinstate it when we no longer need an engineer 😡 #fuming
anger	tweets	@RealBD_ @ReyesAverie 47 unarmed blacks killed by white cops in 2015. That many die every month in Chicago wheres the #outrage
anger	tweets	@bt_uk why does tracking show my equipment delivered, when it wasn't? Why is my service suddenly delayed? We've already 3 weeks.
anger	tweets	Does she really need to pout all the time - getting on my nerves #GBBO
anger	tweets	Ever put your fist through your laptops screen? If so its time for a new one lmao #rage #anger #hp
anger	tweets	@snowangel415 @cjwalters66 Maybe also being attacked by Tom's rabid fans to whom he &amp; his clothes were always perfect also put me off him...
anger	tweets	Dear future big brother players, just chase dick all season and you too can win 500,00 dollars and an Sti #bb18 #bitter
anger	tweets	@VanDashNessa @taotao_salupa5 Nobody in that street burning and looting and terrifying innocent citizens was there, either.
anger	tweets	@Disneyland #nothappy and still #charging the #fullprice 😡😡 #fuming some your #bestrides 😳😳
anger	tweets	Forgot to eat dinner and now I'm furious with everything and everyone
anger	tweets	the girl sitting in front of me is chewing her gum like a cow &amp; im ready to snap 🤗
anger	tweets	@sebbyD27850 both are nonsensical. If there's injustice against blacks, why add to it by destroying black property. It's misdirected anger
anger	tweets	Can someone make me a priority list of which things I should be outraged at + in which order?  #racism #animalrights #abortion #cops
anger	tweets	@VodafoneUKhelp @VodafoneUK wow!! My bill is £44.77 and hav a text from u to prove that and you have taken £148!!!!! #swines  #con!
anger	tweets	You a fuck boy if you run drag routes back to back in madden
anger	tweets	I got fever highs\nI got boiling blood
anger	tweets	@canada4trumpnow @donlemon he has BAD TEMPERAMENT #tantrums #HissyFits
anger	tweets	I can't even right now #bb18 #rage
anger	tweets	@Daniel_Sankey @hayleyp79 Haha.... Actually, after the Doggies I'm barracking for Anyone But GWS! #bitter
anger	tweets	Why are people that don't have iPhones so bitter about iPhones???? Can someone explain
anger	tweets	@RonMexico760 The guy who calls people 'cuck' and is anti-BLM is offended by idea that he might not be pro-policing reform? That's amazing.
anger	tweets	@deshbhakthoon always unhappy and easily offended.
anger	tweets	@SusanHensThe shameful display I watched today has left me reeling with so much anger dt I feel like exploding, those clowns should watch it
anger	tweets	All hell is breaking loose in Charlotte. #CharlotteProtest  #looting
anger	tweets	When you've still got a whole season of Wentworth to watch and a stupid cunt in work ruins it for us 😭😭 @__KirstyGA  #oldcunt
anger	tweets	Half of Epicenter is shut down its police all over y'all I just burst out in tears this is fucking terrible #KeithLamontScott
anger	tweets	Not giving a fuck is better than revenge.
anger	tweets	@winksahoy we about to get shit on by the wrath of winter out of nowhere
anger	tweets	@GrxjicTank WHY though! Why did u want to offend Americans?
anger	tweets	@RealBD_ @ReyesAverie 47 unarmed blacks killed by white cops in 2015. That many die every month in Chicago wheres the
anger	tweets	@CI  I don't think Monalisa has respect for anyone but herself! I think she'll ruffle a few feathers. #TheJail
anger	tweets	@DPD_UK I asked for my parcel to be delivered to a pick up store not my address  #poorcustomerservice
anger	tweets	Thought the Xbox one s madden bundle would come with a physical copy of madden not a code😴 it's gonna take fucking forever to download lol
anger	tweets	@canada4trumpnow @donlemon he has BAD TEMPERAMENT  #HissyFits
anger	tweets	#My #blood is so #bitter for satan to test #becouse #cleanse by the #blood of #Jesus christ....#amen.
anger	tweets	The new gun emoji in iOS10 is not enough to show the anger I have towards a number of things.
anger	tweets	@BigBrother__USA she is just jealous and a cry baby! #bitter #gladsheisgone #crybaby
anger	tweets	I just wanna know why there's no outrage for black on black crime and no one knows those victims but BLM is out to kill cops based on media
anger	tweets	Forever angry that gh ruined Molly and morgan's bond/friendship #bitter
anger	tweets	Spurs radio commentator referred to Mauricio Pochettino as 'MoPo' and I felt a sudden surge of rage.
anger	tweets	@sueblue35 @nsoz7 @immortalbulldog huh? We have a sprint coach? We're the slowest team in the comp. Talk about robbing a living. #outrage
anger	tweets	Can't believe I've only got 2 days off left 🙄 #backtoreality #raging
anger	tweets	@Austin4evaLEEDS fuming!
anger	tweets	Taking a break from the #wedding to #rage at the general #stupidity of certain #people on the #internet.
anger	tweets	Ever put your fist through your laptops screen? If so its time for a new one lmao   #hp
anger	tweets	•My brother grabbed me in a aggressive manner and as always @ImpetuousFiend threw tantrums like a kid only knowing how to express himself--
anger	tweets	Don't join @BTCare they put the phone down on you, talk over you and are rude. Taking money out of my acc willynilly!
anger	tweets	@Casper10666 I assure you there is no laughter, but increasing anger at the costs, and arrogance of Westminster.
anger	tweets	People need a way to escape,escape what?This corrupted world.This reality. This joke.This fury of constant pain &amp; stress.We need a vacation
anger	tweets	I love my black people..... I really really do. But .... my people really do irritate the living hell outta me all cause I'm different. 😑
anger	tweets	I don't talk about politics because people nowadays get offended easily!
anger	tweets	@MannyM83 @DareToReagan oh yeah. I HATE the air raid and I don't like the Oregon/Baylor offense and I'm not a fan of the ole miss one either
anger	tweets	@AskPS_UK not received verification email, asked for it to be resent 5 times still nothing.
anger	tweets	Unbelievable takes 10 minutes to get through to @BarclaysUK then there's a fault and the call hangs up  #treatcustomersfairly
anger	tweets	@Will_0004 No justification for shooting without provocation, even if the person has a bad history. Justification is not the way to go
anger	tweets	I genuinely think I have anger issues
anger	tweets	@judy_that Im honestly offended
anger	tweets	Michelle is one of the worst players in bb history #bb18 #bbfinale #bitter
anger	tweets	I'm so annoyed/sad YouTube is burning itself to the ground 🙄🙄
anger	tweets	How can I tell Happy Anniversary, when u are not happy.. #bitter #ampalaya #paitpaitanangpeg
anger	tweets	Just paid for chicken at @panerabread and didn't even get any 😑😑😑 there goes 4 dollars and me as a customer
anger	tweets	Never forget that 5Live cancelled programs, to allow them to extend 606 so people could call in and detail their outrage after our behaviour
anger	tweets	When someone rudely says all women should have long hair and your inner feminist tries not to rage
anger	tweets	Absolutely raging at the changes to CAS, what a joke
anger	tweets	Girls irritate me so much lol
anger	tweets	@LickMeLucas ...I'm waiting for you to figure out I'm like... from 0 to 100 real quick with the irritation.
anger	tweets	@xxmariab listen yh don't provoke me cos I'll make you cry
anger	tweets	@luxbet Did you even give out any pizzas ? Serious fail #hungry #furious #hangry
anger	tweets	Bloody parking ticket 😒💸
anger	tweets	@DFSCare apparently you are to contact me. Sofas were meant to be delivered today. Old ones gone. Sitting on floor. No sofas!
anger	tweets	@ThomsonCares Sam- yes we have! Not helpful at all! We need this sorting ASAP! You keep promising stuff that doesn't happen!!!!
anger	tweets	They're like the rape apologists who (inadvertently?) make men sound like rabid, mindless beasts. With friends like these...
anger	tweets	And she got all angry telling me 'but what would be doing a 40 year old guy looking for a girl like you' and I felt #offended
anger	tweets	@aGirlHasNo_Name @MdlMurray shot by black police woman Typical looney toon thinking. #Hillary #divide  #chaos
anger	tweets	@UnitedFrontRev @JuanDeznuts @LucidHurricane_ sex offense happens across ALL races, cultures, and creeds &amp; they should be castrated
anger	tweets	@JasonMillerinDC @realDonaldTrump Prudence suggests that a 8+% bump over 2-3 weeks should be viewed with SKEPTICISM. Media/HRC axis #angry
anger	tweets	@lesyoung01 a rabid dog being ridden by the child who has eaten all the flesh off one fellow and the limbs of the other adults.
anger	tweets	@TheOneSoleShoe that is one thing but attacking and hating is worse - that makes us just like the angry vengeful behavior we detest
anger	tweets	Delete this shit Josh just screenshotted my snap me
anger	tweets	Can someone make me a priority list of which things I should be outraged at + in which order? #outrage #racism #animalrights #abortion #cops
anger	tweets	@CorbettBarr @pjrvs @brianclark true. Just me spitting venom because I'm still bitter with Stripe. Like an old man yelling from his porch.
anger	tweets	i will never watch greys anatomy ever ever ever ever ever again if Shonda Rimes takes away another OG character☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️ #fuming
anger	tweets	I wonder what would happen if I were to tell some people the truth #savage #uhoh #angry
anger	tweets	You will never find someone who loved you like I did. And that my love, will be my revenge.
anger	tweets	A @FirstBSA not turning up? Why am I not surprised. Late for work again!
anger	tweets	If you be #angry, which may be the case, &amp; which may be unavoidable, see that the sudden excitement does not become sin. #AlbertBarnes
anger	tweets	@lemonlover666 'shit' doesn't even begin to describe these fiery little demons straight from hell 🌝🌚 ;)
anger	tweets	I am just so bitter today 😐
anger	tweets	@Hoopdawg87 @MickThePerm Meanwhile white cops keep killing black people. But there's less outrage about that. Strange society that.
anger	tweets	@cc_yandian @HillaryClinton her team must draw from a hat for daily personality #drugged #angry #yeller #quiet #screamer #😂😂
anger	tweets	Heading home to cut grass in the heat. All I wanna do is go out to eat somewhere air conditioned. #pout #AdultingIsTheWorst
anger	tweets	OOOOOOOOH MY GOD UUUUGGGGHHHHHHHHH #rage
anger	tweets	i will never watch greys anatomy ever ever ever ever ever again if Shonda Rimes takes away another OG character☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️☹️
anger	tweets	@saclivin @MrsCagg specific &amp; intentional way. And part of that intention is to provoke conversation around systemic racism towards blacks.
anger	tweets	@alyssasimpson21 I gave up KENDRICK LAMAR to eat barbecue with him. #bitter
anger	tweets	@lynnew69 then he said talking about wills uncontrollable animals when moving to another link. These comments do not help!
anger	tweets	@alicehouston18 sorry I'm just angry my drone flew away
anger	tweets	@carefreeash_ id be fuming
anger	tweets	@xandraaa5 @amayaallyn6 shut up hashtags are cool #offended
anger	tweets	@StarklyDark 'I know you trusted me.' His words were soft as he ignored the anger and focused on the hurt beneath. 'I know I screwed up.' --
anger	tweets	I wonder what American city will be next to protest about police shootings. Who's next? Smh. #whenwillitstop  #howmanymoretimes
anger	tweets	Why mfs so bitter
anger	tweets	im on holiday for the next round, fuming!
anger	tweets	Did we miss the fact that #BurkeRamsey swung &amp;hit his sister #JonBenet in the face with a golf club previously out of a fit of #anger?
anger	tweets	@nytopinion  The point of voting for Trump to push all the pieces off the board game like an angry toddler? Wreck everything for everybody?
anger	tweets	Like if you aggravate me constantly, byeeeeeeee
anger	tweets	@Lexual__ @jdspielman10 RIP to the 100s of black men,, women,CHILDREN killed in Chicago. Where is the outrage?
anger	tweets	Inpouring this letter we are dying over against subsist checking quaint virtuoso ways toward fine huff yours l...
anger	tweets	hitting your children as discipline because you're being quite a raging hypocrite if you're not.
anger	tweets	sorry im so #bitter i just. i either want a pure ur or literally any card from the sets i like but every time i draw for the sets i like&gt;
anger	tweets	@DanRather What King says doesn't matter. The fact he came w/ psycho Don is by far more of an affront.
anger	tweets	@JuliaHB1 Bloody right
anger	tweets	i have so much hw tonight im offended
anger	tweets	Like hello? I am your first born you must always laugh at my jokes. #offended
anger	tweets	the outrage has passed and has been replaced by a mute, fatalistic acceptance of the current situation.  #fatalism
anger	tweets	Have wee pop socks on and they KEEP FALLING OFF INSIDE MY SHOES
anger	tweets	and apparently he's supposed to have a Scottish accent??? I'm #offended
anger	tweets	seek to conduct attacks against Israel, intended to provoke a reaction that would further inflame feeling within the Islamic world”. •
anger	tweets	Lost Frequencies/Janieck Devy - Reality (Gestort Aber Geil Remix)' is raging at ShoutDRIVE!
anger	tweets	@EagleGiles23 @tgilmore_92 what I miss? #outrage
anger	tweets	@AllegedLowbrow It's 'Eye-for-Eye'. Indian Army never forgives, Never Forgets. They always take revenge, Pakistan breaks laws, I.A follows
anger	tweets	Worst juror ever? Michelle. You were Nicole's biggest threat.  #bb18
anger	tweets	luv seeing a man with a scowl on his face walking with a protein shaker clenching his fists. i immediately stop n suck his dick
anger	tweets	Fake people irritate me
anger	tweets	Said it before and I'll say it now: America is really fortunate that black people only want equality and not revenge.
anger	tweets	#Anger or #wrath is an intense emotional response.
anger	tweets	@TaraSetmayer @oliverdarcy AA have the right of passage when it comes to the 'N' word.  Why should he insult him in his church.  Ignorant!
anger	tweets	if we let that in id be fuming poor keeping
anger	tweets	@LynneGarrison yeah, I've only seen that floated online as a theory, it was probably made up by a bitter stan. I ignore pets v vets crap too
anger	tweets	@SkyNews when the East wind blue in summer in Durban, S Africa, we still surfed and got #stung badly! Must be carefull-A #sting can harm you
anger	tweets	@LisaAsquithtobe @craig8710 @WayneHaselden @june65wigan everyone is against wigan because we are the biggest club #bitter
anger	tweets	Because it was a perfect illusion, but at least now I know what it was. #angry #ladygaga #iscalming#mysoul
anger	tweets	Candace &amp; her pout are getting right on my tits #GBBO
anger	tweets	@johnaugust @clmazin I was so looking forward to @ABCDesignated. Then it opened with a #stuartspecial. I literally yelled at my tv.
anger	tweets	BANG! Gordon #Brown has been accused of abusing a gazillion #rabid parrots!
anger	tweets	Petition for non-Maghrebi PoC to stop buying 'couscous' from white grocery stores and boiling it. That is not couscous, that is trash.
anger	tweets	ESPN just assumed I wanted their free magazines #offended
anger	tweets	Yo there's a kid on my snap chat from LA &amp; they get high off helium gas lmao.... I am like why the fuck lol
anger	tweets	.@RepDelBene: 'Today's proceedings and the entire process is an insult to our constituents.'
anger	tweets	@serendipity127_ @zombiecalorie @Angel_Eyes66 I'm sensing a theme here tho lol #angry
anger	tweets	@kingcharles9th i Lowkey forgot you had twitter and if you don't follow me back im gonna be #offended
anger	tweets	... flat party and I instantly get bollocked about it.
anger	tweets	@everycolorbot more like every color looks the same #triggered #colorblind #offended
anger	tweets	.@DIVAmagazine than straight people. Even the arse straight guys who think that means a threesome is fine.
anger	tweets	@DouthatNYT @jbouie @DamonLinker Yes, it is bad to point out racism lest it provoke the racists.  Some racists do indeed not like it.
anger	tweets	@Deadspin @jrzy_boy This is about him being left off because they wanted to play a heavier game. We needed his offense tho. Amongst others.
anger	tweets	@Idubbbz @LeafyIsHere  I am offended
anger	tweets	@aroseblush Hello !\nThe bigger the bully, the more crocodile tears. Bullies always act like offended victims.
anger	tweets	@IrishTimesPol @IrishTimes Irish citizens boiling drinking water in 2016 leaves one foot firmly in the bog!
anger	tweets	Candice's pout is gonna take someone eye out mate! #GBBO
anger	tweets	I've always had a weird grudge against stingrays ever since one killed Steve Irwin.
anger	tweets	@jwolfie_ why you gotta use the dark skin emoji #offended
anger	tweets	I'm not saying he might be like big foot but it might be like natural biological father says blood boiling if he cross
anger	tweets	I really really resent having to go to bed at a sensible hour, you guys. I WANT TO TALK TO MY PEOPLE.
anger	tweets	@NM_NickNocturne Incentivise people to roam the Internet being morally offended, as if they didn't do it enough already.
anger	tweets	not to be That Person™ but i get bitter seeing some ravi stans
anger	tweets	@Darren_Hammer amen, nothing personal mate, just tired of all of the complaining from our fans, it's Been a relentless tirade of misery
anger	tweets	Michelle is one of the worst players in bb history #bb18 #bbfinale
anger	tweets	Dear Indians..It is hard to swallow this but for once try to swallow this bitter pill...that is.. Pakistan is number one in Test cricket!!!
anger	tweets	A little nose irritation and a little more chills on my body. I'm so not into flu, into flu, into flu #FallSongs
anger	tweets	I am #real #sjw, I will not let #america down\nI have found us, now go and get us\nI let it out and I let it in\nI #rage I #lol\n@SergioSarzedo
anger	tweets	Connivers blind to existential fury
anger	tweets	guys irritate me
anger	tweets	#firsttweetever sippin #hotchocolate wondering #why I finally gave in &lt;3 haha #hellloooootwitter - ...its because #facebookisforfamily #rage
anger	tweets	@eNCA what they should be doing is directing their anger to the thieves in government...#corruption #FeesMustFall
anger	tweets	Need a new outlet for #rage
anger	tweets	@swagalini ive been through the denial and anger i am in pure acceptance
anger	tweets	@SapientSoldier timid but determined version of the rabid beasts beyond the land. Growling beneath my restrained breath, I //rip// myself --
anger	tweets	I'm not used to pretty girls that use curse words to express their anger. I just feel like I'm a little bit surprised and turned off as well
anger	tweets	@TzumiXIV huff puff
anger	tweets	Hell hath not fury like a hamstring cramp. #ouch
anger	tweets	Actually be arsed with my sister sometimes, she controls the TV 90% of the time and when I watch one thing she gets in a huff 🙄
anger	tweets	@fireemblemlord it's the first expac since wrath that feels like a proper 'evolution' of the game for me
anger	tweets	@Thebeast_ufc what happened to the suicide tweet it was a joke obviously how could that offend anyone?🤔
anger	tweets	@paulkrugman relentless echo chamber - negative comments with lots of reverb. Typical bully behavior.
anger	tweets	when you find out the initiative isn't even a thing 😧 #revenge
anger	tweets	@djddueces jojo at 12:30 and not midnight lets rage WRYYYYYY
anger	tweets	I'll happily be rude to people who personally insult me unprovoked, they deserve it 👍 Just as good people deserve respect
anger	tweets	That AK47 leave your spine with a frown
anger	tweets	come on let's make em hate 😘make em pout they face 👿😩.
anger	tweets	Recommended reading: Prisoners of Hate by Aaron Beck #anger
anger	tweets	@Alanafergusson snap meee
anger	tweets	@KimLy resent
anger	tweets	Forever angry that gh ruined Molly and morgan's bond/friendship
anger	tweets	#disgracefulesin I resent all men in some way; for some or no reason at all. #esinscountdown
anger	tweets	@TillTheEndMMVI I accidetly dumped boiling water my myself 😫
anger	tweets	@ggreenwald Smh, remove ideologically bankrupt and opportunistic establishment now. They're burning all bridges and social contracts.
anger	tweets	As usual disappointing #offense by @HoustonTexans ...#Texans
anger	tweets	@mdivincenzo9 he's stupid, I hate him lol
anger	tweets	@PuseLepuru it's the irritation of not having found the corpse
anger	tweets	never #make a decision when you are .. #angry &gt;_&lt; .... and never make a #promis when you are #happy :) :*
anger	tweets	@girlsreallyrule Both Trump + King are relentless self-promoters who don't give a rip about anyone else. A perfect match for both Donalds.
anger	tweets	@coltonflurry @StrangeFacesLA I cancelled by CBS all access live feeds before JC even said Vic won AFP. Paul.should have won IMO #bitter
anger	tweets	whenever I put 'I wanna be adored' on my brother alwayss sings 'I wanna be a dog' instead just to irritate me
anger	tweets	@johnaugust @clmazin I was so looking forward to @ABCDesignated. Then it opened with a #stuartspecial. I literally yelled at my tv. #umbrage
anger	tweets	I don't get what point is made when reporting on Charlotte looting @CNNAshleigh. Why not explore what looting businesses symbolizes #outrage
anger	tweets	@ArcadianLuthier -- taking out his feelings on Kei unfairly. His lips form a frown as he tries to walk away.
anger	tweets	@laura221b I've left it for my dad to deal with 😂 My work is done as soon as it's felt the wrath of my slipper 😷
anger	tweets	Leave it on there, rule,nimber 1 of carpet cleaning!!!  #worsethananatomicbomb #accidentlyspillbeeronthecarpet
anger	tweets	@m_warner21 Yikes. The wrath of Maddie...
anger	tweets	@Nigerianscamsss @TrillSmith you think I came back to twitter and not ruffle a few bushes? Tuh.
anger	tweets	.@LEAFYSZERKER @markiplier is that an insult? Sounds like a job well done. it's red so it's done the job it was suppose to do #justsaying
anger	tweets	#Hudcomedy #AdamRowe  #insult Slutfaceshlongnugget
anger	tweets	I need some to help with my anger
anger	tweets	@CBSBigBrother never bring back Meech and Bridgette. Crying because someone looks at you? Ugh, and Bridgette. #bitter
anger	tweets	Hey folks sorry if anything offensive got posted on here yesterday my account got hacked. All fixed now though. I hope :-/  #annoyed
anger	tweets	Now it's time to remove CB from the team somehow. Screw it. Rip the Band-Aid off. It'll sting for a bit but everyone will get over it.
anger	tweets	Candice's pout gets more preposterous by the week. This week it's gone a bit Jack Nicholson's Joker. #GBBO
anger	tweets	@keithboykin unfortunately it won't end there... followers of whichever candidate isn't elected will throw tantrums. No winning this elec
anger	tweets	@cc_yandian @HillaryClinton her team must draw from a hat for daily personality #drugged  #yeller #quiet #screamer #😂😂
anger	tweets	Candice's standing pout face aggravates me every week
anger	tweets	Think I really broke young bull hurt 😂😂😭😭 u can tell by how bitter and mad he is 😊😊😩😩
anger	tweets	@OstinOng YUUUHH 🙄😭 plus clin ep and prevmed ugghhh hahaha #bitter
anger	tweets	@HebertofNH any time a man who got paid to throw temper tantrums speaks up, you gotta listen.
anger	tweets	As if he heard my thought on the ether, my #ex has just posted #facebook pic of himself snuggling up with said #cats... now Im just #angry
anger	tweets	don't provoke me after letting me down !
anger	tweets	could never be a angry drunk lol yall weirdos just enjoy your time
anger	tweets	Yet we still have deaths, road rage, &amp; violations on the road, despite a widely accepted concept of 'personal accountability' while driving
anger	tweets	@SiobhanSynnot  Oh, good God. Quentin Letts is doing one of his 'comedy' turns. #angry @bbcthisweek @afneil #BBCTW
anger	tweets	@Trump_Videos she looks completely #rabid @realDonaldTrump
anger	tweets	Inner conflict happens when we are at odds with ourselves. Honor your values and priorities.  #innerconflict #conflict #values
anger	tweets	#EpiPen: when public outrage occurs, expand #PAP Patient Assistance Progrm, coupons,rebates .@GOPoversight @OversightDems on #Mylan #Epipen
anger	tweets	Imagine the twitter fume if Corbyn loses the election and then Smith leads Labour to a worse result than suggested under Corbyn.. Imagine??
anger	tweets	@BosNaud so scared to ruffle feathers, he resorted to writing in cryptic code. #UncleCamsCabin
anger	tweets	Didn't think Cadres not Getting SRC deployment would make some Cadres so bitter, Ku tough Macom.
anger	tweets	I miss doing nothing someone I care about and attacking their face with kisses. #foreveralone #bitter 😩
anger	tweets	That grudge you're holding keeps making an appearance because #God wants you to deal with it.
anger	tweets	@arppaul @chetanlfc @mannkakhiladi @dey_spandan @umeroffcial  Comparing Akshay Sir with this zandu balm is an insult to Akshay Sir.
anger	tweets	🔥Anger is the acid that can do more harm to the vessel in which it is stored than to anything on which it is poured.🔥 #anger \n\n~Mark Twain
anger	tweets	If I spend more than £10 in shimmy on £1 drinks I'll be raging, but we all know it's gonna happen
anger	tweets	I have a rage rage ep 2 coming out soon I'll keep you posted on it #YouTube #youtubegaming #rage
anger	tweets	@iamsrk what's up w the gender bias? #indignant This fancypants saddler's daughter will opt for the leather jacket, thank you very much.
anger	tweets	When your sister is 19 and throws legitimate temper tantrums just to get attention..
anger	tweets	@luxbet Did you even give out any pizzas ? Serious fail #hungry  #hangry
anger	tweets	This provocation sets off a curiosity. An entity is feeding fuel to the fire. speaking quatrains. Hmmm America needs to be vigilant now
anger	tweets	@PatVPeters @FreeBeacon Quite the response of retaliation from Weiner in getting revenge on Huma &amp; Hillary 'clam digging'.\n#AllScumbags
anger	tweets	I guess #bradangelina &gt; #anger &gt; #blacklivesmatter
anger	tweets	Now that I have my ex's number now its time to prank him. #revenge #prank #whatprankIshoulddo seriously what prank I should I do
anger	tweets	Do not despise the Lord ’s #discipline, do not #resent his rebuke, because the #Lord disciplines those he loves... #Proverbs 3:11-12
anger	tweets	Guy across from me in a really ugly suit cannot stop expressing his displeasure
anger	tweets	Some moving clips on youtube tonight of the vigil held at Tulsa Metropolitan Baptist church for #TerenceCruther #justice #anger #sadness
anger	tweets	I think I must scare my coworkers when I'm eating like a rabid animal on my breaks #srry
anger	tweets	@JuliaHB1 Bloody right #fume
anger	tweets	@RoyEnglish roy as fiery
anger	tweets	Why a puerto Rican with Taino hair and a black nose gotta ruffle your targeted feathers?
anger	tweets	@JasonMillerinDC @realDonaldTrump Prudence suggests that a 8+% bump over 2-3 weeks should be viewed with SKEPTICISM. Media/HRC axis
anger	tweets	Listening to Joey really helps me and my anger.
anger	tweets	@kerrybowen_ you have anger issues!
anger	tweets	i can't believe they're all messing up my favourite of all bakes i feel personally offended
anger	tweets	I think they may be #offended
anger	tweets	@ashleighjessica @zacflint1 I'd give that pout the firm D
anger	tweets	I am using twitter as a coping mechanism for raging out at this kid oops?
anger	tweets	@AgentTinsley I believe that's what you call the fury of the righteous.
anger	tweets	Ok but I just got called a 'White Devil' on the train and I didnt know whether to laugh or be offended
anger	tweets	#india will take #revenge  by making 3 new movies like #phantom and they will be like #ghus_k_maren_ge this is how indian army take revenge
anger	tweets	@cxmbeferre so you WOULDNT date me????? #offended
anger	tweets	Drop Snapchat names #bored #snap #swap #pics
anger	tweets	Damn our offense is a mix bag of unpredictable lethal weapons I'm worried for Defense Coordinators 😁 #Chargers #Boltup #Recharged
anger	tweets	the bee sting still suck i feel sick
anger	tweets	I just love it when people make plans for me without actually including me in this process
anger	tweets	@healeyraine I'm offended, I actually am
anger	tweets	pressure does burst pipes 😭
anger	tweets	@voguemagazine, did you not learn from @FreePeople 's viral insult to ballet? Stop trying to wrongfully stick models into pointe shoes 🙄
anger	tweets	@realDonaldTrump: No sense in taking out your wrath on innocent people because you think police shot an innocent man. #MakeAmericaSafeAgain
anger	tweets	@GriffinBowie23 @AliMcClimond sorry to #offend u griffin!!
anger	tweets	@JohnKerry can be as indignant as he wants but the world knows Obama will do nothing and Putin will just do what he wants #Aleppo #Syria
anger	tweets	@sarah_urbina why do you even beef Sara you let the anger get the best of you, you and Sagin been friends for how long?
anger	tweets	@lydss_xx @tharealversace @fatbellybella fuckin luv incense, this is me as fuck 😂
anger	tweets	I screened my own snap what kind of narcissistic ass would smh
anger	tweets	I don't even #feel #anger anymore can't explain it .. #Tulsa #Charlotte #Trayvon #SandraBland #Philando #Ferguson #BatonRouge #MichaelBrown
anger	tweets	@Freepenalties @TMortimerFtbl Doll is a vile creature on the touchline. Every game he has tantrums &amp; shouts at the ref. Would love to see
anger	tweets	@jwolfie_ why you gotta use the dark skin emoji
anger	tweets	jamming out to fury in math class wanting to die hbu
anger	tweets	So I wished my sis 12 midnight but received no reply from her. My 2nd sis JUST wished her, got a reply. You know who's the fav #offended
anger	tweets	@evanareteos :)) im now writing abt the changing face of sex industry in tr :))) now men will talk to me then! #revenge
anger	tweets	can't believe Achilles killed me!
anger	tweets	@a_mxe7 hah don't speak to me or my cousin like that, mind a had the displeasure of seeing u bare faced on eh train, no a pretty sight mate
anger	tweets	Indignation: [whispers to date during that terrific Lerman/Letts centerpiece scene] That's his overwhelming sense of indignation.
anger	tweets	@CBSBigBrother never bring back Meech and Bridgette. Crying because someone looks at you? Ugh, and Bridgette.
anger	tweets	@trendykittykat Some people would rather hang on to their indignant anger. *weary sigh*
anger	tweets	@VerizonSupport thanks for saying My wife and I were getting our iphones today and then losing both of them with no ETA #thanks
anger	tweets	Thatmoment you're watching #worstcelebritycooks and your bubble is burst by finding out KyleXY is gay and married😭 #nochance #KindaDontMind😉
anger	tweets	Women don't like girls because we resent them for looking so great/we wish we still looked like that  #washed
anger	tweets	Hey folks sorry if anything offensive got posted on here yesterday my account got hacked. All fixed now though. I hope :-/ #angry #annoyed
anger	tweets	@IndigoHawthorne Then u understand that rage is often not pretty, or controlled or rational - it is often visceral-not always logical.
anger	tweets	My leg feels like it's gonna burst, yet I'm still expected to go into work:):)
anger	tweets	The best revenge is to move on, get over it, and continue to succeed. Never give someone the satisfaction of watching you suffer.
anger	tweets	Get to work and there's a fire drill. #fire  #outthere #inthedark
anger	tweets	@LaraTheIrish &lt; feel everything. She would remember everything. Evanora hoped this would serve to fuel the creatures anger and run rabid &gt;
anger	tweets	@Kim_is__bored exactly what I have been saying on fb.. #bitter
anger	tweets	Get to work and there's a fire drill. #fire #burning #outthere #inthedark
anger	tweets	@simon_penn_r @AntisocialJW2 has turned into a rather fiery GG radical)
anger	tweets	significantly, with a #bitter smile, 'let me
anger	tweets	@MetPoliceFC is it true none of your players are cops? Do they drink chilled bitter? Are your players Walter Mitty types? @KeviboyAllen
anger	tweets	Brendan Rodgers looks fuming 😭
anger	tweets	@ChronAVT ummm, the blog says 'with Simon Stehr faking 7th'...I'll expect an investigation forthwith. This is an
anger	tweets	My baskets are better when I'm in a bad mood someone irritate me before practice please
anger	tweets	Be chill af if you want to offend someone.
anger	tweets	@DRUDGE_REPORT @FoxNews good thing the FBI didn't offend them!
anger	tweets	you know cyran still hasn't done makeup based on jeongguk's tiddy like i suggested and i'm #offended
anger	tweets	@danrafaelespn no Tyson fury beat the man who been at top for years Danny Garcia should be above Bradley pacquaio frampton
anger	tweets	So I wished my sis 12 midnight but received no reply from her. My 2nd sis JUST wished her, got a reply. You know who's the fav
anger	tweets	@m_t_f_72 I'm not surprised, I would be fuming! 😤
anger	tweets	oh these old things on my face? nah they're not tears from school related anger and frustration nope never
anger	tweets	British humour should offend and challenge mainstream views. Hat off to Clarkeson. The ultra left should go and kneel before Allah!!
anger	tweets	I need all your attention! If I don't I'll pout..
anger	tweets	@AudreyKare i'm like half expecting some rabid troll to come into my mentions accusing me of being a csa apologist or something lmao
anger	tweets	Because it was a perfect illusion, but at least now I know what it was.  #ladygaga #iscalming#mysoul
anger	tweets	Puzzle investing opening portland feodal population is correlative straight a snorting infuriate: XLzjYhG
anger	tweets	@len_snart gives a frustrated growl, before stepping closer and putting his gun through the barrier. No alarms and nothing happened. He-
anger	tweets	@AaronGoodwin seriously dude buy some bubble tape for your phones. #snap broke another phone
anger	tweets	When you forget to mention you were bought dreamboys tickets 🙄😂 #raging
anger	tweets	Now that @Jasmine_Wrn has snapchat back it's a constant battle to see who can get the ugliest snap of one another 😂🙃 #snap survival
anger	tweets	Nick said he's territorial and he'll growl if someone gets too close to me #hesananimal
anger	tweets	I don't mean to offend anyone, but 93.7 literally blames everything on white people. In some cases it's true, but a lot of times, it's not
anger	tweets	He totally knew about it'. Trump finally gets revenge for his son-in-law's prosecution/imprisonment and throws Christie under the bus.
anger	tweets	Inner conflict happens when we are at odds with ourselves. Honor your values and priorities. #anger #innerconflict #conflict #values
anger	tweets	Are belittling kitty straight a service? provoke lift aboard!: Wycelv
anger	tweets	@EAMaddenNFL @EASPORTS I played a game where John Elway was sacked 3x and fumbled all 3x. Is this the same John elway I know of??? #madden
anger	tweets	And she got all angry telling me 'but what would be doing a 40 year old guy looking for a girl like you' and I felt
anger	tweets	@BearGrylls for your next series will u do a celebrity firefighting show and just chuck them all in a burning building and do the voiceover?
anger	tweets	Like I can't do 12 hours worth of standing or calorie burning in 3 hours 😭😭😭😭 #1stworldprobs4vs
anger	tweets	Before revenge you feel good after revenge you feel worse 💯 @HillaryClinton
anger	tweets	I wonder what would happen if I were to tell some people the truth #savage #uhoh
anger	tweets	Take public opinion on revenge with Pakistan if govt is unable to decide. @aajtak @TimesNow @narendramodi
anger	tweets	@cxmbeferre so you WOULDNT date me?????
anger	tweets	the teams that face Barca and Bayern after a defeat are the ones who face the wrath
anger	tweets	I just don't understand why everyone is so #angry we all just want to live and thrive don't we?
anger	tweets	@kitanoye Hell is hot and boiling, isi ewu
anger	tweets	#welfarereform should not be a 'model' for #snap.
anger	tweets	@HillaryClinton Yeah U gotta make them HEEL. I know U need their votes so U have to wait. But when U LOSE-they're really in for your wrath !
anger	tweets	Well @AprilDRyan Trump's rabid base needs 2 hear this &amp; U can always find an overseer like King to say it.\n@JoyAnnReid @SMShow @frangeladuo
anger	tweets	Skipping meals is the national way of showing #disappointment and #anger. #wiz
anger	tweets	streets of rage 2 was hard to find for a while and then Itunes stepped in and the guys doing the vinyl \nmade it so simple
anger	tweets	@paulbushnell25 @EE bad news if ordered online it hasn't gone through same happened to me had to re order on the phone
anger	tweets	@UltimateBoxer My heart because you left me for so long again\n\n*slight pout but it turned to a smile*\n\nheheh just kidding, no I'm fine-
anger	tweets	why are people so angry toward veggie burgers at in n out wtf
anger	tweets	I mean I'm not done watching the pilot, but it's nice to see a group of actors perform without story lines dripping relentless nihilism.
anger	tweets	Checked-in for my flight to Toronto. Took seat 3D just to infuriate @perpetualgeek.
anger	tweets	Egyptian officials expressed frustration and outrage over the Obama/Hillary administration’s support of the Muslim Brotherhood
anger	tweets	@PrincessCasGirl @DaddyEllis__ tiff you better hurry cause 👀
anger	tweets	@fleetstreetfox It's buzzing pathetically for sympathy if you let it out it will twirl it's moustache, chuckle and sting you #Psychowasp
anger	tweets	matt and i just did a psychological study on provocation in abusive relationships.
anger	tweets	@HuffPostUK  NO greater wrath than a woman scorned.
anger	tweets	@kencurtin they might get Donal óg sure! They won't have him in cork as he's to fiery for dopey frank &amp; his cult
anger	tweets	@LouisFil just curious as to what you mean. No rush, no animosity, no disdain.
anger	tweets	@thatomahapa the best revenge is to get yourself a good woman and move on. Leave her and her hairline to figure themselves out alone
anger	tweets	@tamriiel I was talking about further in the expansion, with more gear - fury always does well towards the end
anger	tweets	Who knew softballs could sting so bad? Jimmy Fallon has been under a lot of heat for his &amp;ldquo;softball&amp;rdquo; Donald Trump interview
anger	tweets	@OstinOng YUUUHH 🙄😭 plus clin ep and prevmed ugghhh hahaha
anger	tweets	@StrongestBeing ←would furrow and her face would redden as she protests; it would seem that being seen as unattractive in Wukong's eyes was→
anger	tweets	Finding out my two best Fwendz are going to rage with me at @lifeisbeautiful makes this last week of no sleep extra worth it
anger	tweets	Paul forever. Paul should have won! Paul played such a better game! #BB18 #angry
anger	tweets	@marthalyssa yep. LOL
anger	tweets	@AuntieSupreme @KimberlyCarole y'all found me to express yalls displeasure. 😉
anger	tweets	@1VoiceMatters @MichaelTPremo just got wind of #MenForChoice and it doesn't infuriate me. Just makes me sad for the generation.
anger	tweets	Since the 'update' my @iPhone loses power nearly 40% faster.
anger	tweets	The sun literally burning my skin
anger	tweets	That feel when you travel 700 miles to pick up a form that arrives in the post two days after you leave.
anger	tweets	@DL_Hart @DonnieDollars @AaronBiggsPro @WWENoWayJose @cwfmidatlantic How did that chop feel? You still feel the sting of it? Looks brutal!
anger	tweets	Chris ate all my mac n cheese so imma eat all his taffy
anger	tweets	@thomeagle Just to help maintain and boost our status as a world class centre for education, culture and tolerance. #outrage
anger	tweets	Chris ate all my mac n cheese so imma eat all his taffy #revenge
anger	tweets	It's weird because I was discussing sex resentment and confusion in the thing I was writing last night.
anger	tweets	As if he heard my thought on the ether, my #ex has just posted #facebook pic of himself snuggling up with said #cats... now Im just
anger	tweets	Paul forever. Paul should have won! Paul played such a better game! #BB18
anger	tweets	@BigBrother__USA she is just jealous and a cry baby!  #gladsheisgone #crybaby
anger	tweets	@clarechampion @Westclarepage and peter your radio piece on off the ball was pure class , no digs , no revenge , a total balanced pro ! 👏👏👏
anger	tweets	@coltonflurry @StrangeFacesLA I cancelled by CBS all access live feeds before JC even said Vic won AFP. Paul.should have won IMO
anger	tweets	The best #revenge is to move on, get over it, and continue to #succeed. Never give someone the #satisfaction of watching you #suffer....!!!
anger	tweets	@iStoleFreeHugs @stephlaris lol I'm happy with my negative, realistic ass self. Sorry to offend you
anger	tweets	75' Tierney reaches a deep cross to the back post and plays it back across but the Alloa defence clear. Celtic relentless here.
anger	tweets	Can't believe I've only got 2 days off left 🙄 #backtoreality
anger	tweets	@vladfucker69 i look rabid
anger	tweets	@thedrepabon BLM was outraged by the shooting in NC the other day, turns out the guy pointed gun at police. Wait for facts before outrage
anger	tweets	I get embarrassed at the slightest things and then I'll fret about it all day I hate it
anger	tweets	@Sophiejulia @CalebAtChipotle @calebpressleyxo relentless pipe thirst #sheltered
anger	tweets	I don't get what point is made when reporting on Charlotte looting @CNNAshleigh. Why not explore what looting businesses symbolizes
anger	tweets	#Taurus will react angrily when she can't take being provoked any longer.
anger	tweets	@bismahmalik .....Seems like a fight ready to rage on.....
anger	tweets	@WestonKoury so leafy can roast the Pokemon go kid but not you what an outrage that just means that he is more relevant than y-I mean kisses
anger	tweets	I think Paul is what's bitter, not the pastry
anger	tweets	@PatriotsInform I don't see why you think we'll have a dumbed down simplified offense with Brissett. He comes from a very complicated system
anger	tweets	After becoming boiling hot, after slowly melting, my heart is frozen.
anger	tweets	@xandraaa5 @amayaallyn6 shut up hashtags are cool
anger	tweets	@hoytschile fury road!!
anger	tweets	Realizing that holding a grudge for long is immaturity is wisdom
anger	tweets	@BonesARP 'That is a disappointment.'\n\nHe fakes a pout, then starts to chuckle.
anger	tweets	Some moving clips on youtube tonight of the vigil held at Tulsa Metropolitan Baptist church for #TerenceCruther #justice  #sadness
anger	tweets	@RegalisAzura \ngrasp the cobalt woman's own; which they did fairly easily. Fair cheeks would ignite into a fiery hue. Warm.. was the only
anger	tweets	@billburr DirectTV is the best. Apparently you just sit in silent anger. 'Don't press or say anything'
anger	tweets	I believe women are more fiery because once a month they go through struggle and struggle is what develops a strong character.
anger	tweets	@kingcharles9th i Lowkey forgot you had twitter and if you don't follow me back im gonna be
anger	tweets	im also definitely still bitter about the yellow ranger not being asian, but asian representation in hollywood is essentially a shrug anyway
anger	tweets	Did we miss the fact that #BurkeRamsey swung &amp;hit his sister #JonBenet in the face with a golf club previously out of a fit of ?
anger	tweets	@talkRobyn oh dear I have to watch this the woman with the pout did well
anger	tweets	LIFE TIP 101. I know unresolved #anger is likely to cause problems in several areas of my life. I must recognize it &amp; properly deal with it.
anger	tweets	@Sargon_of_Akkad It'll be like burning rap albums; they'll have to buy it first, but gosh darn it, they have to get rid of it.
anger	tweets	@Docjp they unleashing God's wrath just as Cain did
anger	tweets	@SlaveGuinevere its more of a little prick than a sting .......... but you have to come to Tennessee to get it1
anger	tweets	@DeltaDomain @SawDraze @qurions dis dat nigga from fume right?
anger	tweets	Projection is perception. See it in someone else? You also at some level have that within you. #anger #worry
anger	tweets	@SageHillfarms @HintonAlisa @hb_heather Hey, Jayme! Were your👂👂 burning cuz I was talking about you?😁 Are you going tomorrow?
anger	tweets	@savageimiike one of my favorite songs brother, real talk. #rage
anger	tweets	Controlling #anger is a sign of those #righteous people promised #Paradise in the #Quran in Surah Al Imran verses 133-134 #reward #goodDeed
anger	tweets	@alyssasimpson21 I gave up KENDRICK LAMAR to eat barbecue with him.
anger	tweets	the 1975 are playing antichrist why won't @sundarakarma play hustle it's an outrage
anger	tweets	@TDsNation I blame how broken madden is this year
anger	tweets	@MMASOCCERFAN @outmagazine No offense but the only way this makes sense is if you work for the magazine. Otherwise,who are you apologizing 4
anger	tweets	Nahhhhhh @konanplaydirty snap story has got me bussing up 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
anger	tweets	@ticcikasie1 With a frown, she let's out a distraught 'Gardevoir' saying that she wishes she had a trainer
anger	tweets	@skinkev let's rage
anger	tweets	If i could just get my line to block! #germantownbroncos #lilleague #popwarner #Broncos #usafootball  #lineman
anger	tweets	@BIGGKATZ BUT arms (focused rage) is overpowered, it will be getting nerfed. It'll still be stronger than fury though
anger	tweets	@KevinI @GGGBoxing @SpecialKBrook pretty average, klitschko fury did about 600k and Joshua white did about 450k
anger	tweets	@WBIRSports They're still using his offense, up the middle 3X &amp; punt.
anger	tweets	@jessebwatters lol. Love it when you aggravate Juan. Keep up the good work. Lol
anger	tweets	@judahandthelion TONIGHT. Legit can't wait to rage 🤘🏻🤘🏻🤘🏻🤘🏻🤘🏻🔥
anger	tweets	Seeing #RIPShawtyLo got me thinking bout other rappers then I thought about @LilTunechi dying, and burst into tears... Smh
anger	tweets	@donna_bellav @SoniaRayS @gig_aholic He looks especially lovely. Sadly, I do not *removes potentially indignant Mr D from convo*
anger	tweets	my momma irritate me asking all these questions like gone 😤
anger	tweets	The bubble has officially burst. 98 boys to beat for the trophy and all the glory #wptmain #bye
anger	tweets	@Daniel_Sankey @hayleyp79 Haha.... Actually, after the Doggies I'm barracking for Anyone But GWS!
anger	tweets	@feistyarcher -trouble,' he feigned anger and gave her a look that told her to behave. He knew she wouldn't though, and that was one of -
anger	tweets	@JBCrewdotcom how his own fans insult him
anger	tweets	I offend u
anger	tweets	np rum rage
anger	tweets	Some bloke on the train who's obviously trying to provoke West Ham fans by loudly slagging off the stadium to his mate on the phone
anger	tweets	#welfarereform should not be a 'model' for .
anger	tweets	@TheDTSB @trubble1127 @nflnetwork I agree but our offense was ass after the second half td score on the first drive
anger	tweets	@RealPaulWalker R.I.P Paul, furious 8 can't wait
anger	tweets	Trumpism likewise rests on a bed of racial resentment that was made knowingly and intentionally, long before Trump got into politics.
anger	tweets	If you let a general tweet offend you, you definitely shouldn't be on twitter.
anger	tweets	As your own lives in order to complete our amazing life journey successfully, it is there. #bitter
anger	tweets	@marthalyssa yep. LOL #bitter
anger	tweets	straight people are canoodling on the quad and I'm
anger	tweets	remember when that guy got #angry that i kept saying gary sanchez was the best baseball player in the world... lmao
anger	tweets	What's a Kali's kitten? [She asked, a frown curling on her fair skinned forehead as he showed her the scar] A cat did - (@ScarredTiger)
anger	tweets	@everycolorbot more like every color looks the same #triggered #colorblind
anger	tweets	My husband found out there are other rabid hockey fans like me as we waited in line 4 of the 6 window stickers were for SJ NHL/AHL hockey.
anger	tweets	@ParrishWalton @kjmgolf Also, our best assets on offense are our RB's and our WR's (longterm). Have to have an offense to utilize both.
anger	tweets	@UnknownAndYoung — a low growl escaping him. Oh oh.
anger	tweets	@RiotzXVl papercuts sting and stub ur toe last for like 10 secs
anger	tweets	I've been wanting salty fries from McDonald's since yesterday and I'm burning my fingers eating them bc these shits 🔥🔥🔥
anger	tweets	Love how Megan is raging about this Kendall Jenner photo and I'm sat here like 🤔🙃
anger	tweets	@josephperson Cam is still rattled from the backlash he received when he made the black QB comment and suffered the wrath of White America.
anger	tweets	Because you offended by the lies of Alexandria Goddard doesn't mean that I'm Deric's friend or anything else. Purely a fishin expedition.
anger	tweets	Y'all really insult coz of soccer???  Lmao, wow!!!!!!
anger	tweets	What terrible thing to see and have no vision-\n\nHelen Keller-\n\n-Begin with the end in mind-\n\nStephen Covey-\n\n #whereareugoing
anger	tweets	@StarFlowerz17 @DreamerAbe #bitter. Nicole and Cory is why she was evicted.
anger	tweets	@rumanaa_r @DaiIyRoasts what did I do to offend you? 🙄😭😂
anger	tweets	What terrible thing to see and have no vision-\n\nHelen Keller-\n\n-Begin with the end in mind-\n\nStephen Covey-\n\n#whereareugoing #relentless
anger	tweets	The bitter the battle, the sweeter the victory...
anger	tweets	i resent biting my tongue.
anger	tweets	You can't fight the elephants until you have wrestled the pigs. #quoteoftheday
anger	tweets	People often grudge others what they cannot enjoy themselves.
anger	tweets	@SarahMi40605180 @kaileighhxo sorry to burst the bubble but there was never any illusion 🙈😂😂
anger	tweets	@jaybusbee Well, not Archie. No offense but he's kinda old.
anger	tweets	Scored madden 13 on vita for $20AU today.  Bloke didn't know what he had. I'd have happily paid $70 🤑 my only ever bargain! #bargain #vit
anger	tweets	Now they fret about scuffs. I’ll take scuffs (which…come in) for a phone I can use wet handed or drop in a toilet any day.
anger	tweets	If ydu yell 'fire' in a crowded theater you will burst into flames. It's a cool trick, bu: only once.
anger	tweets	Congress acting indignant over the  #EpiPen pricing is quite disingenuous since they craft the laws that allow such gouging!!
anger	tweets	@ToddDoug @Ziggomattic Yeah, this actually supports why I tweeted in this thread initially. Because of the article's righteous indignation.
anger	tweets	@WWE is the live event Brock vs Orton 2 this Saturday on the WWE Network? If not it needs to be! :) #wwe @RandyOrton @HeymanHustle #revenge
anger	tweets	@edquinn63 how can you even forget to pick ur fave child up from school
anger	tweets	Grateful for all the hungry people in my life! Hungry to learn, change, grow, help, etc - not sure anybody has it better!
anger	tweets	@St8edge4life88 eh well i can do the sting vs cactus loser leaves wcw match at bash at the beach lol
anger	tweets	@warFarePower dip it in boiling water
anger	tweets	I have a rage rage ep 2 coming out soon I'll keep you posted on it #YouTube #youtubegaming
anger	tweets	When anger rises, think of the consequences. #quote #wisdom #anger
anger	tweets	New madden kicking 🚮
anger	tweets	I was going to say that Rooney is a shadow of his former self but I don't want to offend any shadows. #NTFCvMUFC
anger	tweets	When you burst out crying alone and u realize that no one truly knows how unhappy you really are because you don't want anyone to know
anger	tweets	schneiderlin taking his revenge for the 2 fouls
anger	tweets	@JustinRow10 dude the new madden 17? Haha
anger	tweets	you are an angry glass of vodka
anger	tweets	one month til someone's bday and i think it's time to flaunt that I got them something pretty awesome #revenge
anger	tweets	be strong, independant and practical. stop living in your world of fantasy. snap out of it. the faster u get used to the reality, the better
anger	tweets	Time wounds all heels.\n\n #DrunkJesus #rt #lol #wisdom #quote #comedy #self #Revenge  #hate #time #funny #politics #Trump #POTUS2016
anger	tweets	@TehShockwave turn that grumpy frown upside-down\n\nYou did something next to impossible today
anger	tweets	you know cyran still hasn't done makeup based on jeongguk's tiddy like i suggested and i'm
anger	tweets	The most important thing to #bestrong is to hold your #anger #thoughts
anger	tweets	Gotta wonder why Caller Max listens to the show in the first place if you so incense him @MSignorile
anger	tweets	I believe I'm gonna start singing in my snap stories on the tractor. Switch it up a little bit.
anger	tweets	doing some testing with my current earth burst team
anger	tweets	If my luck the rest of Fall goes anything like today, I think I'm going to like this season. #bestdayever #magic #work
anger	tweets	also other ppl who i love a whole damn lot; erica, joanna, tiff, sirli, harley, anja, (the rest of the gc bc i ran out of chara!)
anger	tweets	@sippycoups if it hurts too much to eat, i read somewhere that marshmallows are good bc they are soft and don't irritate
anger	tweets	“Do not fret if you are not cool! Humans who follow me, become instantly cool!” #Bot
anger	tweets	@rabpeel snap, seems to be a problem here
anger	tweets	#burning the last of @Yan
anger	tweets	Can't wait to be in my Ninja turtle costume raging at OSU again this Halloween 😈
anger	tweets	@GreyTheTick But even if I jumped through that hoop, it just takes one irate netizen to decide me playing by 'the rules' isn't enough.
anger	tweets	The best revenge is massive success. –Frank Sinatra
anger	tweets	Despite my sharing O'Neill's article, what saddens me about the Gazza case is there seems to be more fury about the sentence than the remark
anger	tweets	I need to stop second guess myself and just go with the first thought and go with it. #relentless
anger	tweets	We worship at Your feet\nWhere wrath and mercy meet\nAnd a guilty world is washed\nBy love's pure stream\n—Graham Kendrick
anger	tweets	Dear future big brother players, just chase dick all season and you too can win 500,00 dollars and an Sti #bb18
anger	tweets	“He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, And he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city.”\nP16:32 #bibleverse #pride #anger
anger	tweets	Holding a grudge on someone will stop your blessings from God ,learn to forgive &amp; forget 🙏🏾
anger	tweets	Why does Candice constantly pout #GBBO 💄😒
anger	tweets	@pugglelover3691 some of those haters are just taught hate and not shown love. There is a good quote that goes to your comment tiff, treat
anger	tweets	Nor hell a fury like a woman scorned -- William Congreve
anger	tweets	That is at least the 3rd time the balls been burst in our games
anger	tweets	@stoozyboy1 @chris_sutton73 😂😂 Oh the zombie rage 😂
anger	tweets	Prayers &amp; Protection to our brothers and sisters fighting in #Charlotte #rage #against #machines
anger	tweets	@wcsportscamp I lol'ed.  Privileged exasperation should be bottled and sold.
anger	tweets	Finally made my #fury #warrior guide. Let me know your thoughts
anger	tweets	@evanareteos :)) im now writing abt the changing face of sex industry in tr :))) now men will talk to me then!
anger	tweets	@JustPyroNow are you gonna do any kind of community raids when wrath of the machine drops?
anger	tweets	Nurse practitioner: 'you look pretty bad. No offense of course.'  \n\nThank you, that really added that spark of positivity I needed today.
anger	tweets	@dlrwills turn that frown upside down buddy 🙃.
anger	tweets	@SonOfTheDovah *She could sense the anger stirring within him and took his hand in hers.* As long as we stay together, we'll both be safe.--
anger	tweets	and apparently he's supposed to have a Scottish accent??? I'm
anger	tweets	@PerfectQuartz She's jogging a bit to stay beside her, puffing her cheeks with a huff each time. 'Oh-- jeez Jasper, why don't you —
anger	tweets	@RichardHBell Yes, I think he held a grudge ...
anger	tweets	I can't guess if you holding a grudge against the best'
anger	tweets	@JoeGoodmanJr. A solution. But the assumptions by media in articles and every other venue causes animosity to the conversation.
anger	tweets	@LisaAsquithtobe @craig8710 @WayneHaselden @june65wigan everyone is against wigan because we are the biggest club
anger	tweets	@lyskoi anyway, I found a short scale today that was perfect for my purposes. soft on the hands, won't aggravate my (now-chronic) tendonitis
anger	tweets	GAMEDAY VS BUFORD TODAY AT 5:30 AT HOME!!!!!!!!! NEVER BEEN SO EXCITED #revenge
anger	tweets	Tonight's #DragRace #AllStars2 episode GAVE ME LIFE! Yaassss queens! #teamalaska #teamkatya #revenge #bwahaha
anger	tweets	@Kim_is__bored exactly what I have been saying on fb..
anger	tweets	my wasp sting is so itchy
anger	tweets	-- haired man strides close and watches as the Major flinches away from him, the reaction draws a growl from his throat.  -- (@DocHQuinzel)
anger	tweets	srry my feelings offend u 🤗
anger	tweets	Sorry to burst your bubble but it isn't that century anymore. Welcome to the 21st century.
anger	tweets	I can't even right now #bb18
anger	tweets	Asian Tiger #Mosquitoes are so relentless. More aggressive than the kind I dealt w/as a kid.
anger	tweets	Sometimes the best motivations come from 'proving them wrong' #energy #relentless #MotivationalQuotes
anger	tweets	@LonelyGoomba I wouldn't bring this up if I were you. It's a very touchy subject. And people get way to offended these days
anger	tweets	Are you lost in the fury, fearing that you'll fail?
anger	tweets	I need a 🍱sushi date🍙 @AnzalduaG 🍝an olive guarded date🧀 @lexiereid369 and a 👊🏼Rockys date🍕 #tiff
anger	tweets	my alarm clock was ringing this morning n my flatmate knocked on my door and asked if i set anything on fire or if i'm burning alive :) :):)
anger	tweets	@The_Nasty_P now you gotta do that with fast n furious
anger	tweets	@notquitefrodo @dominictarason I remember TAs in the gamedev program said he had temper tantrums in class all the time lol
anger	tweets	i love that tay &amp; tiff are just sitting at my house while i'm at work 🙃
anger	tweets	“He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, And he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city.”\nP16:32 #bibleverse #pride
anger	tweets	@MeghanEMurphy Oh gosh, if you get 800+ raging comments from cruise fans, I will just die laughing!
anger	tweets	Skipping meals is the national way of showing #disappointment and . #wiz
anger	tweets	{Strong hands moving to firmly grope each of @WhimsicallyWild's thighs, squeezing as her digging nails extract a growl from me.}
anger	tweets	@l1ght__eyes u tried boiling em takes years too
anger	tweets	@RLH2606 if u know who died.. I would also burst out crying....\nFrom JOY!!! 😉
anger	tweets	@CrayonToCrayon @SueScoby \nIt's always fun to anger 'All the Old Dudes.' with Rock N' Roll :))
anger	tweets	being bitter only hurts yourself lmaooo
anger	tweets	Sometimes I think the British political landscape is desolate and then I look over at the foaming wasteland of the US and think we're OK
anger	tweets	A wise man told me that holdin' a grudge is like\nLetting somebody just live inside of your head rent free
anger	tweets	Heading home to cut grass in the heat. All I wanna do is go out to eat somewhere air conditioned.  #AdultingIsTheWorst
anger	tweets	@BarackObama I love Lizzy Warren's latest rage against Wall Street.
anger	tweets	When you forget to mention you were bought dreamboys tickets 🙄😂
anger	tweets	Praying for the #Lord to keep #anger #hate #jealousy away from your heart is a sign of #maturity #conciseness
anger	tweets	My little sister sure can hold a grudge 😂😂😂
anger	tweets	@ShieldsCap &lt; Steve between his feet, feeling a blush sting his cheeks. 'I can undress myself, thank you very much,' he snapped &gt;
anger	tweets	one of the main things im doing w/ 13c is filling in the void of my empty bitter heart by making everything how i wanted it to be growing up
anger	tweets	snap music kept me from running into traffic 2005-2007.
anger	tweets	When anger rises, think of the consequences. #quote #wisdom
anger	tweets	Never make a #decision when you're #angry and never make a #promise when you're #happy. #wisewords
anger	tweets	Keep in mind. We're all weak. Don't insult people just because they're human.
anger	tweets	@TDsNation i watch all your videos but i like madden better!
anger	tweets	Projection is perception. See it in someone else? You also at some level have that within you.  #worry
anger	tweets	So Rangers v Celtic ll #revenge
anger	tweets	@lethargytyler ehhh I guess. I want to everyone I've ever burst out laughing in front of😂
anger	tweets	@kateracculia @themathofyou It's true! I reverse-engineered the drink. It's a scientific method. I hear it's all the rage.
anger	tweets	@KodieBurch yesss..apparently you've been popular on snap 🙄
anger	tweets	When a grown adult doesn't drink or has never drank before I just assume they were raised around a raging alcoholic and they want no parts.
anger	tweets	@EAMaddenNFL @EASPORTS I played a game where John Elway was sacked 3x and fumbled all 3x. Is this the same John elway I know of???
anger	tweets	#Zumba, #PiYo and #HIIT sessions. Sweaty, burning but sooooooo good! #missedoutonsummerbikinibodybutwintersunbodywilldo
anger	tweets	@jamiesonhelen @MarianKeyes all three of my agin's on the pout .
anger	tweets	Anger is cheap and politeness is expensive. Don't expect everybody to be polite. #ThoughtfulThursday  #politeness
anger	tweets	don't give someone power by letting their words offend you
anger	tweets	Rt @yoelamite i need that one back, that whole cd was hard, the one with a #rage flew through, rhyme flow, n the 1 u speak on the dollar
anger	tweets	Lot 100 would give Ghandi road rage
anger	tweets	@StutteringGiant at least his character in fast and furious pumped some adrenaline into the franchise. But that's about it
anger	tweets	How can I tell Happy Anniversary, when u are not happy..  #ampalaya #paitpaitanangpeg
anger	tweets	I love when @pinksaltwarrior angry tweets bc it makes me laugh but also hate it bc it makes me miss her more
anger	tweets	when you find out the initiative isn't even a thing 😧
anger	tweets	All this from a cigarette burning in Laura's hand, the angle of her chin, the purse of her lips.'(104) Gorgeous transition!@laurengrodstein
anger	tweets	This all resent #India #Pakistan problem is save #NawazSharif\n@ImranKhanPTI\n@PTIofficial
anger	tweets	#Awareness seek #shelter .#Letgo Old #habit of chasing #desires resultin in #anger #fear #worry .#Choose #Satisfaction within #Peace #Relax
anger	tweets	@RealJeffsdomain Wolfpack theme and trons and sting wore the wolf shirt
anger	tweets	@MHChat sadness with resentment is the past, sadness with fear is the future. try to live in the now #MHchat
anger	tweets	Anger is cheap and politeness is expensive. Don't expect everybody to be polite. #ThoughtfulThursday #anger #politeness
anger	tweets	@JOjojosiejay or in my case a raging moody cow lol why i buy moody cow socks lol
anger	tweets	I'm just doing what u should b doing just minding my business and grinding relentless @LITO615
anger	tweets	Holding a #grudge doesn't make you #strong; it makes you #bitter. #Forgiving doesn't make you #weak; it sets you #free.
anger	tweets	@pianimadi regarde tes snap
anger	tweets	Standard Candice starting the show with a pout #startasyoumeantogoon #GBBO
anger	tweets	@Klipto the orange one is #poisonous and #bitter. You shouldn't judge the #blue one by how it looks but by how it tastes, #delicious.
anger	tweets	Who got madden 17 or 2k17 ps4 add TrackdawgT lets run it
anger	tweets	I wish the next madden has a story mode too. Just like Fifa 17 #madden
anger	tweets	@MetsProspectHub @brianpmangan taking offense to acount...he ranks 32 of 36 over last 2 years by SABR
anger	tweets	@justinbieber Thank u Justin for this amazing concert. I can't believe that only u can provoke these thousand smiles these night#BelieveTour
anger	tweets	@The_Boxing_Hub #klitschko @Klitschko over fury any day #boxing
anger	tweets	The best revenge is massive success.
anger	tweets	Tiangong 1, China's first space laboratory, will come to a fiery end in late 2017. The average decommissioned satellite either burns ...
anger	tweets	Houston might lose a coach tomorrow or by midnight. #yikes ?
anger	tweets	Well, the lines for Sweden's goals sure sting.
anger	tweets	Don't get #bitter get #BETTER
anger	tweets	Don't be bitter
anger	tweets	Went n a bodega 4 incense lookd @ the sis behind the counter &amp; it was like a mirror she said where u from I said here she said no originally
anger	tweets	Recommended reading: Prisoners of Hate by Aaron Beck
anger	tweets	@CharlotteBnntt that's the joke. I know it's incense
anger	tweets	Leveled at the half. Much better offense expected in the second half
anger	tweets	@sueblue35 @nsoz7 @immortalbulldog huh? We have a sprint coach? We're the slowest team in the comp. Talk about robbing a living.
anger	tweets	#firsttweetever sippin #hotchocolate wondering #why I finally gave in &lt;3 haha #hellloooootwitter - ...its because #facebookisforfamily
anger	tweets	One of my favorite classic cars is the Plymouth fiery.
anger	tweets	As your own lives in order to complete our amazing life journey successfully, it is there.
anger	tweets	Kik me I want to swap pics I will post on my account anonymously if you wish Kik: vsvplou #Kik #kikme #snap #nudes #tits #snapchat
anger	tweets	Focus on yourself. Don't let other's love define you when you're happy and don't let it make you bitter if you get hurt.
anger	tweets	I wish the next madden has a story mode too. Just like Fifa 17
anger	tweets	@ImpugnValkyrie *I frown and cup your cheeks in my hands after you step aside.* Angela I care about you. And I don't know how else I can -
anger	tweets	😳The intensity that @sydneyswans play at is extraordinary #relentless #AFLCatsSwans #AFLFinals 🏉👏🏿
anger	tweets	Need a new outlet for
anger	tweets	I need a 🍱sushi date🍙 @AnzalduaG 🍝an olive guarded date🧀 @lexiereid369 and a 👊🏼Rockys date🍕
anger	tweets	@leener00 @libbyfloyd1 @G_Eazy my snap is andriaprebles ❤️
anger	tweets	Colors of the leaves are- changing.  Heatwaves in LA still- raging.  Lattes made in batches. Visit pumpkin patches. #FallSongs
anger	tweets	@shopgreenwich #ldf16 what shall we do this weekend?  #spraypainting in #greenwichmarket with @SNUB23 #core246 #lilylou #fret &amp; #benoakley
anger	tweets	It takes a man to suffer ignorance and smile. Be yourself, no matter what they say.
anger	tweets	@FrizzeyesJr meeee, i'm lvl 320 and i have not a single relentless
anger	tweets	@_Inferno217_ @PaladinsGame ummm that dragons fury though..
anger	tweets	@NessaMatthews he's perfect. But not even in that way where you sort of resent him or suspect that he leads a double life. Just perfect.
anger	tweets	@jetmissTee I thought I peeped him on your snap. That's the homie ✊🏽 lol
anger	tweets	@pbump @AndyRichter  My heart goes out to that woman for the indignity of what she is sitting through.
anger	tweets	You can't fight the elephants until you have wrestled the pigs. #quoteoftheday #relentless
anger	tweets	@serendipity127_ @zombiecalorie @Angel_Eyes66 I'm sensing a theme here tho lol
anger	tweets	ESPN just assumed I wanted their free magazines
anger	tweets	If my luck the rest of Fall goes anything like today, I think I'm going to like this season. #bestdayever #magic #work #snap
anger	tweets	These #NewEnglandPatriots jerseys look like some whack ones that you tried to make when you made custom jerseys on #madden  04
anger	tweets	@DMAnthonyJoseph @TheClumpany No grudge. Only truth in abundance.
anger	tweets	@Lesdoggg take me with you!! JK. Have fun, relax, get a massage or two and chill. Don't eat the cucumbers, most places frown on that.
anger	tweets	630am meeting Olympic House #10golds24 .  #neverquit #believe #dreambig #TeamTTO #going4gold
anger	tweets	Houston might lose a coach tomorrow or by midnight.  #yikes #offense?
anger	tweets	It's easy to hold a grudge harder to let go.
anger	tweets	Prayers &amp; Protection to our brothers and sisters fighting in #Charlotte  #against #machines
anger	tweets	testing
anger	tweets	Happiness is the best revenge
anger	tweets	I forgot about this nice area down here with the fiery hearths
anger	tweets	It takes a man to suffer ignorance and smile. Be yourself, no matter what they say. #sting
anger	tweets	@KingNicky7 also madden isn't the funniest game to watch and if there isn't much happening it's boring
anger	tweets	Mm, okay. Ham for you and turkey for me.' Gives his hair a ruffle before heading back in the kitchen to set out the &gt;&gt;\n@DarkSithKenobi
anger	tweets	Oh my. Watching #rage. It's been like, ages
anger	tweets	Like hello? I am your first born you must always laugh at my jokes.
anger	tweets	Sometimes the best motivations come from 'proving them wrong' #energy  #MotivationalQuotes
anger	tweets	Tonight's #DragRace #AllStars2 episode GAVE ME LIFE! Yaassss queens! #teamalaska #teamkatya  #bwahaha
anger	tweets	and naoto nod she also like tha bands. but she also frown. 'Will the bands 'Papa Roach' be at concert...?'
anger	tweets	If someone keeps #laughing at you, don't #fret  . At least u r giving #happiness .'\n#quotes #quotestoliveby
anger	tweets	@wesrucker247 sounds like a good game plan for our offense....
anger	tweets	The most important thing to #bestrong is to hold your  #thoughts
anger	tweets	So Rangers v Celtic ll
anger	tweets	I think they may be
anger	tweets	I should really study today for chemistry but playing madden is just way more fun.
anger	tweets	i love the word fret so much and im in heaven
anger	tweets	@WWE is the live event Brock vs Orton 2 this Saturday on the WWE Network? If not it needs to be! :) #wwe @RandyOrton @HeymanHustle
anger	tweets	Thursdays at 6pm Vespers &amp; Meditation #prayerful #plainsong #multisensory #candles #incense #psalms #music #silence #faithful sing or listen
anger	tweets	pray for my boy huff
anger	tweets	GAMEDAY VS BUFORD TODAY AT 5:30 AT HOME!!!!!!!!! NEVER BEEN SO EXCITED
anger	tweets	snap: hiAleshia 😃
anger	tweets	I need to stop second guess myself and just go with the first thought and go with it.
anger	tweets	630am meeting Olympic House #10golds24 .  #relentless #neverquit #believe #dreambig #TeamTTO #going4gold
anger	tweets	@ezlisteningdisc it doesn't offend me but it's just,,, Weird.
anger	tweets	Drop Snapchat names #bored  #swap #pics
anger	tweets	Follow me on Snapchat 👻 Carlabtst15 #snapchat
anger	tweets	I love when #girls are busy in teaching how to #pout while taking #selfie in a mall , their desication is immense #women love #perfection
anger	tweets	follow my girl tiff she only got 3 followers💖💘💖💘💘 @00tiffanyr
anger	tweets	@Ms_HeartAttack peanut butter takes away the sting
anger	tweets	hate to see y'all frown but I'd rather see him smiling 💕✨
anger	tweets	@JaredLeto Jared + #snap? 💘
anger	tweets	Kik me I want to swap pics I will post on my account anonymously if you wish Kik: vsvplou #Kik #kikme  #nudes #tits #snapchat
anger	tweets	ordered my vacation bathing suits. one less thing to fret about.
anger	tweets	Cheap pout my brodcast
anger	tweets	Ughhh love a clean house and my incense lit aromatherapy
anger	tweets	Follow me on Snapchat 👻 Carlabtst15 #snapchat #snap
anger	tweets	Vale! Vale! Sip sangria and taste tantalizing tapas @ElCidLA  's fiery flamenco nights! #MinutesFromHoM #SilverLake #LA #Flamenco
anger	tweets	Grateful for all the hungry people in my life! Hungry to learn, change, grow, help, etc - not sure anybody has it better! #relentless
anger	tweets	Love the new song I can't stop thinking about you by #sting.
anger	tweets	@thomeagle Just to help maintain and boost our status as a world class centre for education, culture and tolerance.
anger	tweets	@savageimiike one of my favorite songs brother, real talk.
anger	tweets	one month til someone's bday and i think it's time to flaunt that I got them something pretty awesome
anger	tweets	@Aurena1701 @AngryOrchard he didn't sting me luckily. He just flew off happy and drunk. Lolololol
anger	tweets	Ellie just gave me loads of gifts with notes on em for uni n I burst out in tears, I LOVE HER😩
anger	tweets	@EagleGiles23 @tgilmore_92 what I miss?
anger	tweets	@Callidissima @ahouseingotham wrath of khan is one of the best movies of all time
anger	tweets	I'm girly in the sense that I always have lashes &amp; nails done but tomboy in the sense that black is my only color &amp; refuse the ruffle life
anger	tweets	Follow up. Follow through. Be #relentless. #success
anger	tweets	@cburt43 turn that frown upside down
anger	tweets	@CorningFootball  IT'S GAME DAY!!!!      T MINUS 14:30
anger	tweets	rose incense are the best thing I've ever bought
anger	tweets	@jaaames1993 Literally burst out laughing.
anger	tweets	Follow up. Follow through. Be . #success
anger	tweets	Wrinkles should merely hide where frown have been.  - Mark Twain
anger	tweets	Love the new song I can't stop thinking about you by .
fear	tweets	I know this is going to be one of those nights where it takes an Act of God to fall asleep.
fear	tweets	This is #horrible: Lewis Dunk has begun networking #a Neo-Geo with a his holiday home in Mexico.
fear	tweets	@JeffersonLake speaking of ex cobblers, saw Ricky Holmes at Charlton last week.. tracking back &amp; defending... I dread seeing Gorre on ball..
fear	tweets	@1johndes ball watching &amp; Rojo'd header was equally dreadful!!
fear	tweets	Really.....#Jumanji 2....w/ The Rock, Jack Black, and Kevin Hart...are you kidding me! WTF! #ThisIsATerribleIdea
fear	tweets	Really.....#Jumanji 2....w/ The Rock, Jack Black, and Kevin Hart...are you kidding me! WTF! #ThisIsATerribleIdea #horrible
fear	tweets	Losing to Villa...'@M0tivati0nQuote: Most of the things people worry about are things that won't even matter to them a few months from now.'
fear	tweets	Are you worrying/worried?\n1Peter 5:7\nThrow all your worry on him, because he cares for you.#faith #leadership #worry #mindfulness #success
fear	tweets	If my concerns &amp; anxiety don't matter to you then I shall return the favor. #EyeMatter
fear	tweets	There goes the butterflies in my stomach. #nervous #anxietyproblems
fear	tweets	There goes the butterflies in my stomach.  #anxietyproblems
fear	tweets	@Evan_McMullin @TheBlazeRadio Classic SHITLIB bullshit. Create a horrible problem and then 'discuss' how to solve it. What a PIMP.
fear	tweets	@fatgirlhealthy @MBSCBILL ....so that what do to use violence and intimidation for a polictical agenda.; aka terrorism?
fear	tweets	Honestly, there are some awful people on the internet... smh...
fear	tweets	@ccrago It was dreadful, even after he met the Catfish he still thought it was her!
fear	tweets	@madhav_pastey moral of the story, never check mails in the night. PS. Most notices have nothing much to worry about. @ashwinikn
fear	tweets	“We can easily #forgive a #child who is #afraid of the #dark; the real #tragedy of #life is when #men are #afraid of the #light.”–Plato
fear	tweets	@All4 is the android app it designed to be buggy and work sporadically on a fire TV box? #shocking
fear	tweets	@All4 is the android app it designed to be buggy and work sporadically on a fire TV box?
fear	tweets	Having a terrific Tuesday? Crush it today with the Power of 4. Treat your internet like Pizza =D \n#PowerOf4
fear	tweets	@joey_coops yes Hun! Avoid at all costs!! #nightmare
fear	tweets	@joey_coops yes Hun! Avoid at all costs!!
fear	tweets	The Apocalypse has hit our gym and it's  nothing what I thought it would be...\n\nEveryone is wearing vests! What if it's contagious? #afraid
fear	tweets	The Apocalypse has hit our gym and it's  nothing what I thought it would be...\n\nEveryone is wearing vests! What if it's contagious?
fear	tweets	You want  bad service use #frontier they have #terrible service. Go to #AT&amp;T anybody is better. I am going to complain to better business
fear	tweets	@TheDappaMc also £2.50 for a chocolate Feast ice lolly.. proper shocking 😩
fear	tweets	@AttentiAlGatto LOL! Why would it scare me? It doesn't make any sense at all but it doesn't scare me! {chuckles}
fear	tweets	By officialy adopting #BurhanWani, a #Hizbul terrorist, #Pakistan n #NawazSharif hv md a cardinal mistake 2day tht'll haunt fr years. #UNGA
fear	tweets	@soozclifford Sure have... Sydney are too tough, too quick and their 'team' pressure is too much for the Cats to handle. Motlop/Cowan
fear	tweets	@soozclifford Sure have... Sydney are too tough, too quick and their 'team' pressure is too much for the Cats to handle. Motlop/Cowan #timid
fear	tweets	Okay. Brace yourself. I will attempt my first loaf of bread in the morning. I will use a dutch oven. I will make the dough now. #nervous
fear	tweets	Okay. Brace yourself. I will attempt my first loaf of bread in the morning. I will use a dutch oven. I will make the dough now.
fear	tweets	@spencer0415 awe, I love you kid!!
fear	tweets	The 2nd step to beating #anxiety or #depression is realising that it's not about waiting for ...., Take action yourself now.
fear	tweets	@AlaskaGurus @adventuretweets agreed! 😍 an awe to meet such beautiful, powerful animals.
fear	tweets	@BuzzFeed so this houses will get into my instestines and scare my poop and I'll shit my pants?
fear	tweets	Nothing worse than an uber driver that can't drive. #awful
fear	tweets	Nothing worse than an uber driver that can't drive.
fear	tweets	On @Varneyco/@FoxBusiness to talk latest on #Chelsea Bombing + #Ahmad_Khan_Rahami's trips to #Afghanistan/#Pakistan #tcot #terror
fear	tweets	On @Varneyco/@FoxBusiness to talk latest on #Chelsea Bombing + #Ahmad_Khan_Rahami's trips to #Afghanistan/#Pakistan #tcot
fear	tweets	⊰ @FrameOfAnAngel ⊱ \n\n+ Of them. I'm here for answers, and if I scare her to death, there won't be answers for me. \n\nSo instead, I just +
fear	tweets	But I was so intrigued by your style, boy.Always been a sucker for a wild boy #alarm -@AnneMarieIAm
fear	tweets	@SAHARTHERAPPER I unfollowed without hesitation &lt;3
fear	tweets	Watching It Follows.  This is a super freaky movie.  #scary
fear	tweets	They'll be yo friend, shake your hand, then kick in yo door thas the way the game go🤖🤐.
fear	tweets	And I cried in front of my guy last night. And it's just been a horrible week but it's only for a week
fear	tweets	Came in to work today 1.5 hours late.1st thing I hear: 'Ma'am,the big boss has been waiting for you in his office.' #panic #hateBeingLate 😩😪
fear	tweets	also i had an awful nightmare involving being sick where worms were involved i was so disgusted when i woke up
fear	tweets	At school, my classmate is with me at music class and he sang Hallelujah like, god, with my friend we were breathless.
fear	tweets	@CNNPolitics I can't wait to hear what he had to say about the brilliant Dr. Hawking... it should be rich... In the poorest of taste! #bully
fear	tweets	@CNNPolitics I can't wait to hear what he had to say about the brilliant Dr. Hawking... it should be rich... In the poorest of taste!
fear	tweets	#Awareness seek #shelter .#Letgo Old #habit of chasing #desires resultin in #anger #fear #worry .#Choose #Satisfaction within #Peace #Relax
fear	tweets	Ever been really lonely and your phone keeps blowing up, but you just can’t pick it up and respond to people?  #recluse #issues
fear	tweets	My Modern Proverb: 'Don't let anyone intimidate you about being single; most marriages end in divorce.'
fear	tweets	He called me fat, so I pushed him into the lockers then he threaten to sue me' 😂
fear	tweets	Whatt a trailerrrr !!! @karanjohar @AnushkaSharma #RanbirKapoor #AishwaryaRaiBachchan i am COMPLETELY BLOWN !! #awestruck #longingformore
fear	tweets	Whatt a trailerrrr !!! @karanjohar @AnushkaSharma #RanbirKapoor #AishwaryaRaiBachchan i am COMPLETELY BLOWN !!  #longingformore
fear	tweets	I have been seeing terrible terrible prescriptions this week. What's going on?
fear	tweets	@stephenfhayes Mustard gas = hostile work environment, not #terrorism; call #OSHA not #military
fear	tweets	Dunno y am going to the Yorkshire scare grounds when I only lasted a minute in the Alton towers one before running out a fire exit crying
fear	tweets	@LethalWeaponFOX This show SUCKS! #lame #awful you even used the same names?? lol SO SO bad! #Failed #notworth2minutes. Off air SOON
fear	tweets	Rooney shocking attempted cross
fear	tweets	That's an awful miss from Rooney.
fear	tweets	Another fun fact: i am afraid
fear	tweets	Why upping rooms makes a few apprehend leaving out charcoal ownership: UnZU
fear	tweets	I don't want speak front to him #afraid #intimidate #nopanicattack
fear	tweets	I don't want speak front to him   #nopanicattack
fear	tweets	I want to be a woman who #overcomes obstacles by tackling them in #faith instead of tiptoeing around them in #fear. Renee Swope
fear	tweets	When you're scared to press send #bgoodthepoet #PrayForMe #ThisIsAGodDream #career #help #fear #heart #HeartRacing
fear	tweets	When you're scared to press send #bgoodthepoet #PrayForMe #ThisIsAGodDream #career #help  #heart #HeartRacing
fear	tweets	@RyanAbe awe yay thank god I was so worried.
fear	tweets	About 7 weeks till I can pick up my camera again. Though I think there is a group cemetery shoot in october I can make! #photography #horror
fear	tweets	About 7 weeks till I can pick up my camera again. Though I think there is a group cemetery shoot in october I can make! #photography
fear	tweets	@hollywooddivas @TMZ_Sports Idiots like Larry Sanders scare us All!How can Morons these days Rush 2 Judge #Police w/o all facts yet?FU thugs
fear	tweets	Thanks for ripping me off again #Luthansa €400 not enough for a one way flight to man from Frk then €30 for a bag then free at gate #awful
fear	tweets	Thanks for ripping me off again #Luthansa €400 not enough for a one way flight to man from Frk then €30 for a bag then free at gate
fear	tweets	T5ylw ansh a79l shy 7lw mn wayed nas fe whatsapp
fear	tweets	The moment you bring her to meet your best friend and you're nervous af! 😬😆  #thefriendtest
fear	tweets	The moment you bring her to meet your best friend and you're nervous af! 😬😆 #nervous #thefriendtest
fear	tweets	@ChrissyCostanza and have social anxiety. There is many awkward things wrong with me. 😄
fear	tweets	@chutneysupercat hi lovely brownie, MM is calling me tuppytupperware.. its awful
fear	tweets	Northampton are awful 🙈
fear	tweets	It really is amazing the money they give to some of these QB's #nfl #texans #brock
fear	tweets	It really is amazing the money they give to some of these QB's #nfl #texans #brock #terrible
fear	tweets	@lukeshawtime terrible
fear	tweets	@mikefreemanNFL \nIsn't OBrien supposed to be some sort of offensive genius #awful
fear	tweets	@mikefreemanNFL \nIsn't OBrien supposed to be some sort of offensive genius
fear	tweets	Trying to book holiday flights on @britishairways website is becoming a #nightmare
fear	tweets	Trying to book holiday flights on @britishairways website is becoming a
fear	tweets	Bout ta get my @dontbreathe on up in here! @WarrenTheaters #nervous #icantholdmybreaththatlong
fear	tweets	Bout ta get my @dontbreathe on up in here! @WarrenTheaters  #icantholdmybreaththatlong
fear	tweets	#twitter #users Tweeting on twitter is like playing a game against the computer. Where's the life, Everyone too #afraid to say something?
fear	tweets	@ReaganBattalion That's a terrible thing to accuse Scott Baio of.
fear	tweets	Tweeting from the sporadic wifi on the tube #perilous
fear	tweets	Tweeting from the sporadic wifi on the tube
fear	tweets	Southend players always haunt Man U
fear	tweets	If i start growing out my mustache now, I can be Pablo Escobar for Halloween!!!
fear	tweets	Not the best horror ever but I like that the uncertainty
fear	tweets	Hillary Clinton looked the other way to the Saudi war on women and their terror financing because they bought her off.
fear	tweets	@AaliyahLove69 I would be intimidated but I would like to think I would have manned up and helped.
fear	tweets	it's horrible cos no one can relate,  everyone is happy and dandy in one way or another
fear	tweets	@CesarSampao @thisisbolton don't get me started on town centre. Used to go every week.... not been for 18 months #horrible
fear	tweets	@CesarSampao @thisisbolton don't get me started on town centre. Used to go every week.... not been for 18 months
fear	tweets	Gahh...BT, in queue for 30 minutes.. Now put through to BT Sport dept to cancel... back in a queue again... #shocking
fear	tweets	Gahh...BT, in queue for 30 minutes.. Now put through to BT Sport dept to cancel... back in a queue again...
fear	tweets	Staff on @ryainair FR1005. Asked for info and told to look online. You get what you pay for. #Ryanair @STN_Airport #Compensation
fear	tweets	Staff on @ryainair FR1005. Asked for info and told to look online. You get what you pay for. #Ryanair @STN_Airport #Compensation #awful
fear	tweets	An adviser to the #European #Union’s top #court said #Hamas and the #Tamil #Tigers should be taken off the EU’s #terror list.#lka
fear	tweets	So about 18mths ago i signed up to @Lumo_Energy for their @VirginAustralia / Velocity FF deal. 18 months in still no FF points #shocking
fear	tweets	So about 18mths ago i signed up to @Lumo_Energy for their @VirginAustralia / Velocity FF deal. 18 months in still no FF points
fear	tweets	#Matthew 25; 1-13\nCould somebody shoot a #video about it?\nIt could be 1 of those #horror videos but in the same time turning many 2 #Christ
fear	tweets	@bkero @whispersystems Which really sucks because typing on a mobile device is always horrible and I hate it.
fear	tweets	Be #afraid of the #quiet ones they are the ones who actually #think.
fear	tweets	@riinkanei he's a horrible person and now i gag when i see people quote him
fear	tweets	What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do.' ~Tim Ferriss #inspiring #inspired #motivation #fear #success #hustle
fear	tweets	What we fear doing most is usually what we most need to do.' ~Tim Ferriss #inspiring #inspired #motivation  #success #hustle
fear	tweets	a pedicure is supposed to be nice but honestly I'm so nervous rn my feet are too ticklish
fear	tweets	US you need to band together not apart #nevertrump he promotes hatred and fuels #fear
fear	tweets	US you need to band together not apart #nevertrump he promotes hatred and fuels
fear	tweets	What a shamefull, unequal, dangerous and worrying world we live in nowadays! #terrifying #Charlotte  #shitworldforourkids
fear	tweets	Been up since 4am. Too scared to go back to sleep #nightmare — feeling scared
fear	tweets	@EASPORTSFIFA EA sports technical support team really suprised me 😊 SUPRISED ME AT HOW SHIT THEY WERE #awful
fear	tweets	@EASPORTSFIFA EA sports technical support team really suprised me 😊 SUPRISED ME AT HOW SHIT THEY WERE
fear	tweets	@F1abraham holy shit...what the hell happened to your lips!! Fix that shit! #mtv #teenmom #horrible
fear	tweets	@F1abraham holy shit...what the hell happened to your lips!! Fix that shit! #mtv #teenmom
fear	tweets	@JamesPiotr I am working on a feature right now about the preponderance of awful owners who are at war with fans. So many to choose from.
fear	tweets	BibleMotivate: Are you worrying/worried?\n1Peter 5:7\nThrow all your worry on him, because he cares for you. #faith #leadership  #mindfu…
fear	tweets	@chelsysayshi @Adweek touché! I'll start paying more attention and test this 🕵🏻‍♀️ #AdweekChat
fear	tweets	That boy so intimidated he go back and say dumb mess like that. 🤔 lol boy please, you know good and well.
fear	tweets	The ecosystem is meant to break thru the wall of #apprehension. It's easy to follow a fave music star &amp; watch their goings on–but #dentists?
fear	tweets	Plus why did I have a baby 4 days before Christmas this is gonna haunt me forever!!!
fear	tweets	@BennyN_PR If you need any assistance with your concern so it can be resolved, feel free to email us with your info. ^AP
fear	tweets	inha's and seol's banter is rly fun to read. im in awe that seol is willing to deal with her tho
fear	tweets	@littlepieces Customer services got involved and eventually completely wash their hands of it. #awful #dreamornightmare
fear	tweets	@littlepieces Customer services got involved and eventually completely wash their hands of it.  #dreamornightmare
fear	tweets	and I'm up from a dream where I said something really retarded on twitter and it got like 10000 retweets #nightmare
fear	tweets	and I'm up from a dream where I said something really retarded on twitter and it got like 10000 retweets
fear	tweets	I'm way too busy and tired all the time to worry about my past and the things I should be regretting (but I never am).
fear	tweets	When City Hall has the fire alarm go off and it's been 15 minutes and the fire department still isn't here
fear	tweets	@britishairways term 5 security queues at arrivals #shocking
fear	tweets	@britishairways term 5 security queues at arrivals
fear	tweets	@RussiaInsider Really sad &amp; surprising. 1 side #Russia fighting against #IS &amp; on the other supporting #Pak which is epic centre 4 #terrorism
fear	tweets	@RussiaInsider Really sad &amp; surprising. 1 side #Russia fighting against #IS &amp; on the other supporting #Pak which is epic centre 4
fear	tweets	The #Texans should never play a prime time game again...this is #awful #TNF
fear	tweets	The #Texans should never play a prime time game again...this is  #TNF
fear	tweets	So going to local news immediately after #DesignatedSurvivor turns out to be a smooth transition. 'Chaos! A raging fire!...' #media #fear
fear	tweets	So going to local news immediately after #DesignatedSurvivor turns out to be a smooth transition. 'Chaos! A raging fire!...' #media
fear	tweets	😫 ughh I just want all this to be over.. it's like a nightmare! can we all just get along?
fear	tweets	Time for some despair #SDR3 #despair #fuckthisanime
fear	tweets	Time for some despair #SDR3  #fuckthisanime
fear	tweets	Fuckin restless
fear	tweets	Annoyed with @TripAdvisorUK bullying me to download an app that eats my phone memory. Will seek alternative from now. #bully #tripadvisor
fear	tweets	Annoyed with @TripAdvisorUK bullying me to download an app that eats my phone memory. Will seek alternative from now.  #tripadvisor
fear	tweets	@News24 #FMF protesters aren't interested in reasoned debate, just #intimidation #violence &amp; #disruption to get demands met
fear	tweets	I #cry out #fear to clear a #path\nBut my Voice seems 2 silent 2 chase a #rat\nAm just indoor #expecting to open door\na #weak wise #fool I am
fear	tweets	@jshayevitz @Israel is a #bully worse than #hitler a #demon under #human guise.. its the cause of all #MiddleEast problems!
fear	tweets	@kevinrouth Now that's what I call a gameface! #gameface
fear	tweets	@NikeSupport ok, thats it. After 2 weeks not being able to sign in, time to move on &amp; find another app. I will strongly discourage NikeRun
fear	tweets	#quote What U #fear controls U. Fear is not out in life but in ur mind. Real difficulties can be overcome - Cheryl Janecky
fear	tweets	I hate those sugar cookies shit is awful
fear	tweets	@gfunk85 @officialpes you must have been one of 'them'. Those that used long balls to win matches. Your reign of terror is over, accept it
fear	tweets	@DaddyION you and that awful music can take a walk... right off a cliff. K. 😘
fear	tweets	It is important to seek peace, even in the midst of a horrific war #CreateSyria  @intalert #TalkingPeace #buildingpeace
fear	tweets	@AdoreDelano ill be there... with VIP TICKETS! Can't wait to meet you. Never met a famous person i admire before! #nervous
fear	tweets	@AdoreDelano ill be there... with VIP TICKETS! Can't wait to meet you. Never met a famous person i admire before!
fear	tweets	what to wear Friday \nspeaking in front of 100's.   #nervous
fear	tweets	@CNN please fire don lemon!!Do not let him report on anymore  protest. He is #horrible #negative and runs away from the issue at hand!
fear	tweets	In honor of Shawty Lo passing away I made Dey Know my new alarm clock song so I wake up with the right attitude everyday lol
fear	tweets	@Bwana86 I can fear that someone is always following me everywhere I go. Does that make it true??
fear	tweets	second episode of AHS 6 here i go #panic
fear	tweets	second episode of AHS 6 here i go
fear	tweets	I can never find the exact #emoji that I'm after at the exact moment that I need it #nuclear #missiles.\n\n#IndianArmy
fear	tweets	The Car' (1977)\nA middle of the road #horror film that in the hands of a better filmmaker could've been a hell of a lot better. 5/10
fear	tweets	The terror threat level really need to be raised
fear	tweets	I'm going to get the weirdest thank you note--or worse--total silence and no acknowledgement. #anxiety
fear	tweets	I'm going to get the weirdest thank you note--or worse--total silence and no acknowledgement.
fear	tweets	@Curculiunculus @System1Politics Yep, as I pointed out before, it's the politics of loathing. That's why the big candidates are so horrible.
fear	tweets	@rockcock64 cum and despair
fear	tweets	@AliKhanSays Oh come on. RAW and ISI have been spying for decades. Spying and supporting terrorism is two different thing.
fear	tweets	Shame on you @SkyNews showing an elephant being hunted and killed, #shocking
fear	tweets	Shame on you @SkyNews showing an elephant being hunted and killed,
fear	tweets	I shower to lay in bed for about an hour then dread wearing pants for the remainder of the day
fear	tweets	@devenmiddleton i'm totally loving it, it just makes me sad when people feel super awful cuz they aren't abroad like life is still goin
fear	tweets	@destaneex @ProSyndicate @EGX oh don't panic he's gonna be there
fear	tweets	like srsly somebody help me deal with this social anxiety
fear	tweets	Love takes off the masks that we fear we cannot live without and know we cannot live within. - James A. Baldwin
fear	tweets	Romero is fucking dreadful like seriously my 11 month old is better than him.
fear	tweets	@HillaryClinton evidently @realDonaldTrump feels above #norms. SHOW the #tax return, if you have nothing to #fear
fear	tweets	@HillaryClinton evidently @realDonaldTrump feels above #norms. SHOW the #tax return, if you have nothing to
fear	tweets	Fuck me....what the fuuuuuuuck did I just watch?!?! #STAGESCHOOL is awful.....no that flatters it!! #shocking 😮👎
fear	tweets	Why do people gotta start so much drama ? Shoot me ☹️
fear	tweets	@mar_de_palabras But I do think we need to experience a bit madness &amp; despair too. This is the stuff that makes us human.
fear	tweets	I hate freaking out and ruining things. #anxiety
fear	tweets	I hate freaking out and ruining things.
fear	tweets	Paranoia is a fear every races has
fear	tweets	@kohara19 It's a rare land octopus. Be very afraid.
fear	tweets	God, I've been so physically weak the whole day. So much shaking :(
fear	tweets	why won't you let me go? do i threaten all your plans? im insignificant
fear	tweets	It appears my fire alarm disapproves of my cooking style
fear	tweets	penny dreadful just cleaved off a fraction of my heart
fear	tweets	Even at this level, rojo still manages to play god damn awful. #MUFC
fear	tweets	.@billradkeradio is not a fan of The Beat Happening. But that's not to discourage aspiring other Olympia musicians! #KUOWrecord
fear	tweets	@shimian lol. DK has actually dropped from top of the table, surprisingly Arms Warrior is top of the DPS at the moment #shocking
fear	tweets	@shimian lol. DK has actually dropped from top of the table, surprisingly Arms Warrior is top of the DPS at the moment
fear	tweets	@dish_answers I've contacted @dish @dish_answers #awful #service #whathappenedtocustomerservice
fear	tweets	@dish_answers I've contacted @dish @dish_answers  #service #whathappenedtocustomerservice
fear	tweets	@ManUtd Rooney needs to come off! Absolutely dreadful! 🙈🙈🙈 class goal from @carras16 @carras16 showing why he should be in the team!!
fear	tweets	@brendancoots where's your outrage that your party nominated a lying, corrupt person? And received donations from nations who support terror
fear	tweets	@Groupon_UK who do I contact about a shocking experience with Clear Sky Holidays booked through you guys?? #customerservicefail #dreadful
fear	tweets	@Groupon_UK who do I contact about a shocking experience with Clear Sky Holidays booked through you guys?? #customerservicefail
fear	tweets	@sandrosmom The horror!
fear	tweets	@jaimeotero_ how about saying something like 'if you're concerned about privacy use it only in incognito mode'. #alarmist
fear	tweets	@jaimeotero_ how about saying something like 'if you're concerned about privacy use it only in incognito mode'.
fear	tweets	@KimPiggie @kristasaidthis oh every people can make tipo. It is terrible bullying them about that. It's trvial and very sad.😔
fear	tweets	But 'for me not to worry, they'll get a glass guy over and bill us for it'
fear	tweets	When you just want all the attention #cantsleep #nervous
fear	tweets	When you just want all the attention #cantsleep
fear	tweets	#GoodAfternoon! ^^ Doesn't matter whn you #start something, as long as you start it #today. 'Age' only exists in the mind. You are #Timeless
fear	tweets	@comcast you charge 150 extra for sending someone out and your cable service still doesn't work. That's robbery. #cable  #service
fear	tweets	@comcast you charge 150 extra for sending someone out and your cable service still doesn't work. That's robbery.  #cable #horrible #service
fear	tweets	More #terror attacks on #India means something ominous for #Pakistan The current situation can't last long
fear	tweets	I stepped into the shower and my spidey senses tangled. I immediately looked up and saw a spider directly above my head.
fear	tweets	I stepped into the shower and my spidey senses tangled. I immediately looked up and saw a spider directly above my head. #terror
fear	tweets	@Away_Label_Not True Indeed! Next time if these midnight hunger pangs worry you,then you can order delicious rolls from #TRC via @ScootsyIt
fear	tweets	Good job #Texas for saying no to #Obama for #refugees who could be #terrorists! #Wakeup, #America! #Stop #terrorism. #pray @foxandfriends
fear	tweets	@ddcl2519 @ABC not nice.  Wishing harm on another human being is deplorable.  Your comments show how human, and humane you are. #bully
fear	tweets	@ddcl2519 @ABC not nice.  Wishing harm on another human being is deplorable.  Your comments show how human, and humane you are.
fear	tweets	@TamraBarney @ShannonBeador @RHOC_KellyDodd Tamra would F her up if she swung on Tamra\nKelly is a piece of 💩 #needstobeadmitted #bully
fear	tweets	@TamraBarney @ShannonBeador @RHOC_KellyDodd Tamra would F her up if she swung on Tamra\nKelly is a piece of 💩 #needstobeadmitted
fear	tweets	The majority of my clients have family/ partner/ day job/ life AND write their beautiful books. #awe #gratitude #HARDwork
fear	tweets	The majority of my clients have family/ partner/ day job/ life AND write their beautiful books.  #gratitude #HARDwork
fear	tweets	@ibishotelsuk @ibisHotels_FR @ibishotelbr @ibishotel @ibishotelBDG @ibishotel1 to give me my keys back. They aren't for my house! #shocking
fear	tweets	@ibishotelsuk @ibisHotels_FR @ibishotelbr @ibishotel @ibishotelBDG @ibishotel1 to give me my keys back. They aren't for my house!
fear	tweets	#Determine to #start putting the Word in your #heart #consistently. Every day a #line here, a line there--a tape here, a #tape there 💨
fear	tweets	I went to this sushi spot &amp; they had tobi &amp; an ANBU mask hung on the wall behind them. I will start going there even tho I don't eat seafood
fear	tweets	RIP 'dancing on my own' after that awful song and dance
fear	tweets	@nicky57672 Hi! We are working towards your highlighted concern and we will keep you posted on same. Regards, Himani
fear	tweets	Caballero having a nightmare #sweeperkeepernot
fear	tweets	@Diana_Buds well, did she make you laugh with her panic mania or not??¿
fear	tweets	there is no shame in fear, what matters is how we face it.
fear	tweets	Val got a little too big for her hiking boots with that bakewell, the little terror #GBBO
fear	tweets	@PARISDENNARD why should I listen to someone with a tie like that? #awful
fear	tweets	@PARISDENNARD why should I listen to someone with a tie like that?
fear	tweets	@outmagazine jesus heck you're awful
fear	tweets	I forgot #BB18 was on tonight  that is how much the real world has been distracting me #horrid 
fear	tweets	@atlabps He doesn't intimidate me, it just annoys me to have him by my side. The further he is, the better I feel
fear	tweets	I wish I could fast forward 3 months from now, I'll know then where I'm at with my girl, my classes, and basketball. Rn I have pure #anxiety
fear	tweets	I wish I could fast forward 3 months from now, I'll know then where I'm at with my girl, my classes, and basketball. Rn I have pure
fear	tweets	@DsWorld18 did you hear it? Cause I am getting messages about the ground shaking
fear	tweets	Southampton playing really well here. Youngsters Matty Targett and Jake Hesketh in particular and Austin and Long formidable as a front two
fear	tweets	#tulsa - Police manufacture murder... Wonder why we carry burners...? - MaxLevelz #shake
fear	tweets	#tulsa - Police manufacture murder... Wonder why we carry burners...? - MaxLevelz
fear	tweets	If I was a ghost I'd haunt people by giving them cramps in both of their legs when they do cardio 😈😈😈 #Mwahaha
fear	tweets	@zorefx you guys will see what i did in the next video but its fucking horrid
fear	tweets	#Malaysian police arrest 4 people for suspected links to #terrorism including three #foreigners\n\n#Malaysia
fear	tweets	I thought I wouldn't have to deal with that fire alarm again today and then I stepped into Mesa during their fire drill👀
fear	tweets	That moment of #panic when your zipper gets stuck when you're in the #bathroom and you realize the only way out of your jeans is #scissors
fear	tweets	Why does #terrorism exist in the first place? #AskTrumpOneQuestion
fear	tweets	Multitasking .... I may have to induce these seeds of mine to sleep. #restless
fear	tweets	Multitasking .... I may have to induce these seeds of mine to sleep.
fear	tweets	On the way to Laser Vista ... lens implantation ... #LaserVista #nervous #happy
fear	tweets	On the way to Laser Vista ... lens implantation ... #LaserVista  #happy
fear	tweets	Had a conversion with a random fellow passenger on a #melbourne @metrotrains yesterday evening #astounded #youwouldntreadaboutit
fear	tweets	Had a conversion with a random fellow passenger on a #melbourne @metrotrains yesterday evening  #youwouldntreadaboutit
fear	tweets	this girl at my new school is so pretty i am #intimidated
fear	tweets	this girl at my new school is so pretty i am
fear	tweets	I wanna go to fright fest with squad
fear	tweets	@annafifield @washingtonpost all hands on deck at the post and in the msm as trump starts to lead in oh, fla, NC, NV, CO. #panic
fear	tweets	@annafifield @washingtonpost all hands on deck at the post and in the msm as trump starts to lead in oh, fla, NC, NV, CO.
fear	tweets	It's unbelievable that security guard acting like a gangster trying 2 threaten me and tell me what to do with my own home. #terrify #annoy 😡
fear	tweets	@paige_christian awe man, when are you free then? ☹️️☹️️☹️️💘💘💘
fear	tweets	A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination.' - Nelson Mandela
fear	tweets	I'm a shy person
fear	tweets	@Rosie #Strongwomen terrify #weakmen - don't let the #bully wear you down. Loving your consistency and truth in rough times Hang in there ❤️
fear	tweets	Which #JohnCarpenter #horror #action #flick is your favorite ??
fear	tweets	@rihaBabyJ Aw no problem. I just felt like speaking because I felt the same before and I want you to overcome it and not be discouraged. :)
fear	tweets	@chelseahandler I don't think your a girls girl #fraud #bully #celebeffer
fear	tweets	@chelseahandler I don't think your a girls girl #fraud  #celebeffer
fear	tweets	@DrColJ @drshow #Muslims have been in USA for ages. To think that Muslims commit #terrorism due to #Islam, you gotta be out of your mind.
fear	tweets	I seriously miss #ahsaftershow with @trixiemattel and @TheRealEdHansen. I need to talk about the mamasitas and the hunks of horror.
fear	tweets	I can't believe this day hasn't been horrible BLESS
fear	tweets	I'm also upset at my incorrect use of a comma. #grammar #struggle #hesitation #backtoschool 🎒📚
fear	tweets	Worry makes you look at the problem and God makes you look at the promise.  #problem #promise   #faith #God #theanswer #spiritu...
fear	tweets	@LanaDelRey @Ocelottacash tfw ur fans panic cuz they think u cut ur hair
fear	tweets	Starting to get butterflies in our tummies about tomorrow...who will win?! #nervous @IPMCOGSAwards
fear	tweets	shy glizzy - ride 4 u🎧
fear	tweets	@Varneyco @SheriffClarke I agree. Rioters destroy property, injure citizens, and threaten lives. We need a zero tolerance policy on riots.
fear	tweets	Kernel panic = sweating, sneezing, hiccuping, snot, tears, crying. Clearly my body has an issue with chilli.
fear	tweets	Why is it so windy? So glad I didn't ride my bike. #fear #wind
fear	tweets	Why is it so windy? So glad I didn't ride my bike.  #wind
fear	tweets	Rear garden alarm activated  at Telford house at 106.4.
fear	tweets	watching my first Cage of Death and my word this is tremendous
fear	tweets	Pakistan continues to treat #terror as a matter of state policy says @MEAIndia. #UriAttack
fear	tweets	I think I must scare my coworkers when I'm eating like a rabid animal on my breaks #srry
fear	tweets	“Worry is a down payment on a problem you may never have'.  Joyce Meyer.  #motivation #leadership #worry
fear	tweets	“Worry is a down payment on a problem you may never have'.  Joyce Meyer. #motivation #leadership
fear	tweets	It's not a panic situation let's be honest. How shit are they. We just have Rooney up front 😂😂😂😂
fear	tweets	Patriot rookie QB Jacoby Brissett  to start vs Houston tomorrow nite.\n\n'Been a learning process since I got here.Gotta be ready to go.'
fear	tweets	@MaxiNutrition order 321073 parcel 15502922895987. #awful #customercare by @DPD_UK tried to view calling card online. black image #noshow
fear	tweets	The 2008 crisis was just the tremor In advance of the earthquake'
fear	tweets	@bt_uk appointment booked between 1-6 today, waited in all day and nobody showed up, also requested a call back and never got one
fear	tweets	@bt_uk appointment booked between 1-6 today, waited in all day and nobody showed up, also requested a call back and never got one #awful
fear	tweets	I can't believe @HoustonTexans can't put up even 3 points on @Patriots #horrible #hugeletdown
fear	tweets	I can't believe @HoustonTexans can't put up even 3 points on @Patriots  #hugeletdown
fear	tweets	#Question of the #day: what are some of your #nervous #habits? (biting fingernails, tapping your foot, clenching your teeth...)
fear	tweets	@CapehartJ agree!  Those latest polls #alarming
fear	tweets	@CapehartJ agree!  Those latest polls
fear	tweets	Changing my hair again #shocking
fear	tweets	Changing my hair again
fear	tweets	@tariqmateen but sadly he missed some crucial and important points. Indian terrorism in pk,  kal Boshan,  etc..  Raw involvement
fear	tweets	Are you worrying/worried?\n1Peter 5:7\nThrow all your worry on him, because he cares for you. #faith #leadership  #mindfulness #success
fear	tweets	I've realized my anxiety is at an all time high when I'm in my office. I feel prisoned here and I pick up on bad energy.
fear	tweets	@yonahimes they never posted stuff like this?????\ni mean i was able to scroll over it so it wasnt a big deal but it was #shocking
fear	tweets	@yonahimes they never posted stuff like this?????\ni mean i was able to scroll over it so it wasnt a big deal but it was
fear	tweets	@ducktapepr @midnightaction @juliea592 @catherinerusse2 I dread to think... #DirtyPeople
fear	tweets	When you realize there is #NoHopeForHumanity so you just #start focusing on what's #best for you.
fear	tweets	sai manakgupta \n\nWhat about brutality by #Indian Army In #Kashmir ? isnt it terrorism ?\nIndia should accept precondition of #FreeKashmir fi…
fear	tweets	@maggyvaneijk Old age?! No hope for the rest of us. Destined to become deatheaters by 50 #nightmare
fear	tweets	@maggyvaneijk Old age?! No hope for the rest of us. Destined to become deatheaters by 50
fear	tweets	@carl_diggler @TMZ_Sports Thank you for saying what others are afraid to say, Carl. Big fan!
fear	tweets	@dilancliff @jackcourtney95 @ConnorGarnett1 Connor said he's worried that Jack will steal his girls on a night out #nervous
fear	tweets	@dilancliff @jackcourtney95 @ConnorGarnett1 Connor said he's worried that Jack will steal his girls on a night out
fear	tweets	@ShannonBeador we know the truth about her, the public is figuring it out. Her words mean nothing.  #unhappy #mean #troubled #vile #bully
fear	tweets	Thorpe park fright night booked for me and @JakeTaylorr12  21st something different should be a laugh 🐝
fear	tweets	It's amazing how something gets stuck in your head, and you can't shake a memory...  Sometimes, I miss people a lot.  Wish they knew.
fear	tweets	@NancyErvin4 The most ghastly thing is the silence from the #AARP. Trump says he won't touch SS, but his tax plan belies that.  Huge cuts.
fear	tweets	Am I the only one with parking sensors who still manages to reverse into things? #nightmare
fear	tweets	Am I the only one with parking sensors who still manages to reverse into things?
fear	tweets	@SeanUnfiltered Texans are scared of this bunch! #intimidated
fear	tweets	@SeanUnfiltered Texans are scared of this bunch!
fear	tweets	if Man U lose i may actually have a nervous breakdown
fear	tweets	#ThisIsUs has messed with my mind &amp; now I'm anticipating the next episode with #apprehension &amp; #delight! #isthereahelplineforthis
fear	tweets	@AfroNewtzz also your car hahahah 'oh we've broken down lemme just rearrange the car quickly' #nightmare
fear	tweets	@AfroNewtzz also your car hahahah 'oh we've broken down lemme just rearrange the car quickly'
fear	tweets	My doctor has taken a liking to poking prodding and drawing blood from me post dad. Over concern is nice but dear gawd needles :O
fear	tweets	@imjustatrankk awe yay wish i could rt /:
fear	tweets	@Darren32895836 @FatimaFatwa it would be a great opportunity to settle the globe down.. #fear does wonders..
fear	tweets	@_MariaPetrova should have stopped after 'smiled'. Being rude=not the same as being funny.It was just being mean #bully  #stoppickingonwomen
fear	tweets	@_MariaPetrova should have stopped after 'smiled'. Being rude=not the same as being funny.It was just being mean  #stoppickingonwomen
fear	tweets	Panic attacks are the worst. Feeling really sick and still shaking. I should be a sleep. #anxiety #depression
fear	tweets	Panic attacks are the worst. Feeling really sick and still shaking. I should be a sleep.  #depression
fear	tweets	@Doubtism I'm not on about history or  other people, I'm on about you. I've bullied no one, I make three posts and you attack #bully
fear	tweets	@Doubtism I'm not on about history or  other people, I'm on about you. I've bullied no one, I make three posts and you attack
fear	tweets	something incredibly terrible about my life is i'm 23 years old and still suffering through group projects..........
fear	tweets	#ArchangelSummit @sethgodin  Anyone can be brave but you just have to last 5 mins longer than everyone else. #leadership #fear
fear	tweets	#ArchangelSummit @sethgodin  Anyone can be brave but you just have to last 5 mins longer than everyone else. #leadership
fear	tweets	I love my mother, but talking about the recent horrific murders with her is exhausting. Is this really how America feels?
fear	tweets	@schokokitsune As much as I always eat....so no. -w- \n\nBut I shake all the time, so eeeeh. Maybe I should go see a doctor 'cause of it .w.
fear	tweets	0 excitement for this weekend just pure dread
fear	tweets	@TheSummerIsHere Your ass looks horrible! Oh, is that your face?
fear	tweets	@Briardpup @dogworldnews Did they get the wrong fur Pal? #shocking 😱
fear	tweets	If you ain't shaking no ass, don't ask me for my liquor. Rule #1..
fear	tweets	@Dolla_DeLotta They wanna bully the Inhuman.
fear	tweets	Will do fine on the mat tonight with or without sleep. theres no worry for that on this side of the water
fear	tweets	8. sweater weather - the neighbourhood\ngirls/girls/boys - panic! at the disco
fear	tweets	whats with these boxes when i search google on chrome #horrible #distracting
fear	tweets	whats with these boxes when i search google on chrome  #distracting
fear	tweets	last nigt i dreamt \nthat somebody loved me\nno hope no harm\njust another false alarm
fear	tweets	@peterdaou What? Hillary has 27 different controversies and she gets asked NOTHING about any of them. Truth is she's a horrible candidate
fear	tweets	Remember the #twinkie #scare ???? #tbt
fear	tweets	 heads melted, very tired but can't sleep.
fear	tweets	Collects all the times when Minerva would chew on his cape. Begins to shiver, runs a hand through his hair. \n\n'You can surely━\n@ardentflier
fear	tweets	Never let your #fear decide your #future 󾍘🏽\nHave an amazing Thursday, \nLove Miss D X
fear	tweets	@KissFMUK rescue my morning, turned up to the gym an hour early before it opened! #nightmare ☝️
fear	tweets	#Obama #DOJ have destroyed USA!These #CharlotteProtest are acts of #terrorism dating back to #Ferguson Terrorism is how it should be treated
fear	tweets	Why are all of these people leaving Blizzard??? D: It's giving me a frighten!
fear	tweets	@Twitch how do I stop that horror movie themed commercial? Suddenly hearing screams is really not making me want to watch twitch. #anxiety
fear	tweets	@Twitch how do I stop that horror movie themed commercial? Suddenly hearing screams is really not making me want to watch twitch.
fear	tweets	@ayeshashafique5 we are not concerned about Pakistan's internal affairs. But the terrorism as it's state &amp; economic policy.#terroristnation
fear	tweets	Yall rlly gotta stop lettin bees put fear in ur heart. unless ur allergic, I'm not tryna see u run around from a fuckin bee...chill. u soft.
fear	tweets	Come on girl shake that ass for me
fear	tweets	i'm... nervous about this test rip
fear	tweets	Stoked that the concept of 'label exclusivity' is becoming faux pas. Always believed it held artists back while creating label distrust
fear	tweets	@esanderc @MrsFridayNext It is very specific areas only. I care like 0% about clothes, much to my mother's dismay.
fear	tweets	There is nothing like being in the shower when the power goes out 😳 #creepy #panic
fear	tweets	There is nothing like being in the shower when the power goes out 😳 #creepy
fear	tweets	#smackdev #ptp #start oh yeah!
fear	tweets	What's up Cowboys? #horrible
fear	tweets	What's up Cowboys?
fear	tweets	Popufurs make posts like 'opening commissions in an hour get a slot while you can' and I'm like sitting here in awe at that sort of demand
fear	tweets	Does this blow your mind as much as it blew mine, or did I just sexually harass someone? #WHOA #Mindblown #huh #setback #fright #madashell 😂
fear	tweets	@kateemick what a nightmare
fear	tweets	Follow this amazing Australian author @KristyBerridge #fiction  #zombies #angels #demons #vampires #werewolves #follow #authorlove
fear	tweets	Ok this movie was good in it's time, and whilst we were young... 😂 Still enjoy a shy Ethan Hawk #BeforeSunrise
fear	tweets	@LeeMorris7 I had no idea until I came off air directing at 7pm #shocking 😕
fear	tweets	“What worries you masters you.” - Haddon Robinson @ChoGMinistries #Jesusisthesubject #worry #anxiety #anxious
fear	tweets	“What worries you masters you.” - Haddon Robinson @ChoGMinistries #Jesusisthesubject   #anxious
fear	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause of some unknown reason but I try to discourage it
fear	tweets	realising you have no conditioner after already shampooing 😓😓 #nightmare
fear	tweets	realising you have no conditioner after already shampooing 😓😓
fear	tweets	Putin feels it acceptable to bomb &amp; kill aid workers. Soon he may be sitting at the same table as Trump!! #Armageddon #USApleasedont #horror
fear	tweets	Putin feels it acceptable to bomb &amp; kill aid workers. Soon he may be sitting at the same table as Trump!! #Armageddon #USApleasedont
fear	tweets	@syd_viciously I have gained a tremendous amount of respect for @RandPaul over the past couple of years.
fear	tweets	@virginmedia shocking service for your call centre staff this evening. Transfer me and cut me off after waiting forever to speak to someone.
fear	tweets	Shriekfest is lining up VOLUNTEERS! Oct 6-9, only serious inquiries please!  shriekfest@aol.com  see free films!  #horror
fear	tweets	I walked 3.4 miles today, the most I've walked since I got #rhabdo. Going back to work tomorrow.. here's to hoping it goes okay #nervous
fear	tweets	I walked 3.4 miles today, the most I've walked since I got #rhabdo. Going back to work tomorrow.. here's to hoping it goes okay
fear	tweets	@JessicaLRohlik you seriously need to pop out of some curtains while matt is filming  to scare the bejesus out of him.
fear	tweets	@sphiwememela...its bad.I am fearing for my life🙏
fear	tweets	@sandahlcarrie Your comments concern us, Carrie. Please DM your record locator and details.
fear	tweets	Looks like I'm going in for my op just over a week or so early! #nervous 🙈🙈🙈
fear	tweets	@ykrahs666 @HaiderAlAbadi @HassanRouhani %95 of Iraqi political was fighting with Iran against Iraq in 80s %99 of terror in Iraq is Iranian
fear	tweets	@BowkerMorgan awe thanks morgs!!! love u lots girly ❤️😊❤️
fear	tweets	This is awful
fear	tweets	Do not #worry about anything but #pray about everything.
fear	tweets	@Masonicmoron i always hesitate to update.  At least it's no the horrors iPhone users endure every few months 😅😅
fear	tweets	@mylittlepwnies3 \n&gt; #terrorism coffee addict\n&gt; blocks cats, writers, artists and hedonists
fear	tweets	even walking around with my family members who carry guns makes me nervous and theyre my family....
fear	tweets	First College Math Test tomorrow #nervous
fear	tweets	First College Math Test tomorrow
fear	tweets	Have the producers of @soverybritish ever been outside of their country? These are universal problems. #worldwide #anxiety
fear	tweets	Have the producers of @soverybritish ever been outside of their country? These are universal problems. #worldwide
fear	tweets	So I've decided to go talk to Mr. Smithrud about that creepy fucking guy since he gave me a fucking anxiety attack this morning
fear	tweets	Wtf are United doing, shocking defending
fear	tweets	Yeah! Tonight it's time for the #weekend #mix @WildFM with @djkeanu and @RickWaltmann set your #alarm for 8pm #house #deephouse #ibiza
fear	tweets	@drunkafzayn @vogueszap yes it's shocking how islamophobic Indias are considering how many Muslims live there
fear	tweets	day 2 of the thread and i thing he doesn't like me like that. idk he's so shy and secretive... ugh.
fear	tweets	@Red9Nick @Audi_Nutz @NickBuck08 @Thompson2Neil @Insaniti_LFC @knoller2 @KemlynRoadStand @godisared don't be shy their great people👍🏻👍🏻
fear	tweets	It'd probably be useful to more than women, but I'm dealing with re-reading an article about a woman being harassed on the subway. #concern
fear	tweets	It'd probably be useful to more than women, but I'm dealing with re-reading an article about a woman being harassed on the subway.
fear	tweets	Not sure if thats an accomplishment or something to worry about
fear	tweets	When you get to a point as an officer that you are in fear for your life you sir need to change professions
fear	tweets	@AnsarAAbbasi John Kerry fckd u,chief justiceofpak made the statement publicly about party supporting terror what else u need#terrorstatepak
fear	tweets	#Success awaits on the other side of your #fear &amp; that's only in your#head-JesusChristEmpowersRightThinking-ASK #fitness #weightlifting
fear	tweets	When's it all finished, you will discover that it was never random! #thoughts #restless #CrossoverLife
fear	tweets	When's it all finished, you will discover that it was never random! #thoughts  #CrossoverLife
fear	tweets	@addy_caylen I told her I wasn't fighting her Bc I'm not trashy and she keeps tryna threaten me lmfao
fear	tweets	Danish pastries...oh know my nightmare! Old boots is a good description #GBBO
fear	tweets	@Gen_Ironicus Musicians have a superstitious dread of crossing highway 69, true story
fear	tweets	@TheRachelFisher i've seen a bunch of that on another twitter feed and I remember you had an opinion on it #shocking
fear	tweets	@TheRachelFisher i've seen a bunch of that on another twitter feed and I remember you had an opinion on it
fear	tweets	That heart pounding, goosebumping nightmare experience! 😨 Woke up 3:00 in the morning with that scary, bad dream of mine. 😰
fear	tweets	@WestHamUtd why does the ticket website never work? Trying to buy Palace tickets and it's impossible and says there's an error #awful
fear	tweets	@WestHamUtd why does the ticket website never work? Trying to buy Palace tickets and it's impossible and says there's an error
fear	tweets	I would just give her with their naked body. #afraid
fear	tweets	I would just give her with their naked body.
fear	tweets	I miss my dread head 😩
fear	tweets	So I went to a different grocery store, and they had no @DukesMayonnaise\nI had to buy Helmann's.\nLiterally shaking right now.
fear	tweets	So nervous I could puke
fear	tweets	These mets know how to give someone anxiety #mets #lgm #anxiety @mets
fear	tweets	Searching for someone to date ― on Tinder, at a bar, through friends ― can feel like an absurd nightmare. Or, at least, a series of
fear	tweets	@NGilbert92 @_c0urtknee_ haha it's me, shocking I know 😂 you'll hear me moan I'm too cold in winter ⛄️
fear	tweets	If you think reason will prevail in this election remember that Hitler was elected by what was then a wholly 'reasonable' society.
fear	tweets	If you think reason will prevail in this election remember that Hitler was elected by what was then a wholly 'reasonable' society. #fear
fear	tweets	#Depression has you wanting to change the past, #anxiety has you focusing on the unknown future. Neither are about living in the present.
fear	tweets	@_Briannax33 @TheFunnyVine @MarielaLynn_ @karengutiii_ gotta shake the booty instead though, makes sure it's all good 🙂
fear	tweets	@ctp It's daunting trying to follow Swift news/trends, and facing mind-shattering patterns/terms left and right. I'm trying to adopt gently.
fear	tweets	@steph_baker7 i tried to turn off my alarm this morning and it turned on all my alarms instead
fear	tweets	American horror story in bed 👌🏼
fear	tweets	American horror story and chill tonight?😌
fear	tweets	This weather making me dread work tonight
fear	tweets	thank you for finding this @ @afcEnes coy
fear	tweets	@JamieSmart93 that was shocking!
fear	tweets	I look #horrible today and I just saw 6 people ik in the past 10 min :-)
fear	tweets	First day of fall quarter tomorrow.  😰 #nervous #excited #anxious #blargh
fear	tweets	First day of fall quarter tomorrow.  😰  #excited #anxious #blargh
fear	tweets	I highly suggest if you are looking online for a company to help you send you're package overseas..DO NOT EVER EVER USE @FastLaneInt
fear	tweets	I highly suggest if you are looking online for a company to help you send you're package overseas..DO NOT EVER EVER USE @FastLaneInt #horrid
fear	tweets	A goal should scare you a little, and excite you a lot. - Joe Vitale #quote
fear	tweets	Ugh.. Why am I not asleep yet. Fml. I think low key I'm afraid I might miss something. #SleeplessNight #sleepy #restless
fear	tweets	Ugh.. Why am I not asleep yet. Fml. I think low key I'm afraid I might miss something. #SleeplessNight #sleepy
fear	tweets	@AASadeq I scare people even when I'm suspended? LOL
fear	tweets	Good Morning!!!\n\n#leadership #healthcareIT #socialmedia #connector #ceo #writer #AI #EQ #security #bigdata #Growthhacking #tech #fear
fear	tweets	@captainzee44 yup. He can celebrate and no he doesn't hesitate
fear	tweets	don't #worry, earthlings\ni'm not real..\n..OR AM I?
fear	tweets	Skydive booked 😁😁 #nervous 🛩
fear	tweets	Someone set off the fire alarm and I'm so angry because I was in the middle of moisturizing my elbows
fear	tweets	Love all the ex United managers on Twitter who form our fanbase. Honestly I despair at times. Just back the fucking team eh #MUFC
fear	tweets	Friday is here, and we are open tonight and tomorrow. Get a jump on your Halloween and come play with us. #hauntedattraction #tulsa
fear	tweets	Friday is here, and we are open tonight and tomorrow. Get a jump on your Halloween and come play with us. #hauntedattraction #tulsa #haunt
fear	tweets	what to wear Friday \nspeaking in front of 100's.
fear	tweets	@Chic_Happens_ @Sean_Okeeffe1 @royalmusing I dread the comparisons to Queen Máxima. Guarantee I will lose followers when that happens.
fear	tweets	@lhbrown1990 @Jimcummingsacme I'm afraid to look!
fear	tweets	On the drive home today I heard a censored version of Spirits by The Strumbellas. 'Guns' replaced with 'dreams'. Just NO. #awful #censorship
fear	tweets	On the drive home today I heard a censored version of Spirits by The Strumbellas. 'Guns' replaced with 'dreams'. Just NO.  #censorship
fear	tweets	@rgam0rtis it's a common problem I've had with every 6 plus. having a regular 6 = not having to worry about the design flaw = working phone
fear	tweets	@caIrissian take deep breaths bc the shaking could be from adrenaline. Oh wow that's weird. Depending if you're regular or not that varies-
fear	tweets	Don't faint. New Cisco IOS vulnerabilities were announced yet again. What would be shocking? If they’re patched this week by users.
fear	tweets	@jkriv You're most welcome. Please check with us anytime you have a question or concern.
fear	tweets	Might start stanning Lady Gaga again - more so than last time - but shhh don't tell Connor
fear	tweets	Whenever you are confronted by a wild animal or hostile individual remember that they can smell #fear or the fact you #poop your pants.
fear	tweets	@BetteMidler @Adele @TheGarden @charitybuzz Also, apart from Skyfall, her music is dire and boring.
fear	tweets	@economictimes World knows #Pakistan is an epicentre of #terror. The #pakistan speech in UN has define their agenda
fear	tweets	Watched the movie, friend request at 2am awhile ago in a dark cold night and it was one of the bad choices I've ever made. #nightmare 😰
fear	tweets	@FoxNews also we are having riots and protests at alarming rate every time there's a person of color that is shot.
fear	tweets	Why do I have such bad anxiety it's annoying
fear	tweets	Look at me. Made it through the day without a meltdown. #anxiety
fear	tweets	Look at me. Made it through the day without a meltdown.
fear	tweets	False alarm // matoma &amp; Becky hill
fear	tweets	Happy 69th @StephenKing! May u keep haunting us for many years. #horror #writing
fear	tweets	Happy 69th @StephenKing! May u keep haunting us for many years.  #writing
fear	tweets	3. You are so cool I feel slightly intimidated sometimes but YOU ARE A VERY NICE PERSON and I LIKE THE THINGS YOU DO. 💕
fear	tweets	@vkon1 @WindyCOYS by all accounts he was poor first half. Started showboating once game was safe #bully
fear	tweets	@vkon1 @WindyCOYS by all accounts he was poor first half. Started showboating once game was safe
fear	tweets	@MobilePunch  alarming
fear	tweets	@RyhenMessedUp goodbye despair
fear	tweets	#ahs6 every 5 minutes I've been saying 'nope nope I'd be gone by now.' 'MOVE' or 'GTFO' so thank you for the #fear
fear	tweets	#ahs6 every 5 minutes I've been saying 'nope nope I'd be gone by now.' 'MOVE' or 'GTFO' so thank you for the
fear	tweets	@Pamela_Moore13 @Ginlefebvre @BarackObama yes exactly &amp; he's sold out this country to #terror while #lying to cover it up
fear	tweets	the day they disclosed they caught her googling cholroform we were fucking aghast
fear	tweets	quentin i sait aps dire eastpak i dit aspak msk
fear	tweets	@Naya_Eclissu + me!'\n\nAnd that's when she suddenly became quiet as her lips started to tremble \n\n'...........Naya'\n\n'I don't want to +
fear	tweets	@Bridget_Delia @originalaubs omg that's terrible
fear	tweets	#EFT is the single most effective tool I've learned in 40 years of being a therapist-Dr. Curtis A. Steele (psychiatrist) #stress #anxiety
fear	tweets	#EFT is the single most effective tool I've learned in 40 years of being a therapist-Dr. Curtis A. Steele (psychiatrist) #stress
fear	tweets	@maddie_truex just wait till they hit you with the 5am fire alarm in the middle of winter. Those are sweet
fear	tweets	@DatelineNBC this is a sight, sound &amp; smell to behold in person--still gives me the creeps to think about. #shudder
fear	tweets	@DatelineNBC this is a sight, sound &amp; smell to behold in person--still gives me the creeps to think about.
fear	tweets	@BurmanAJ @AMANDAZUCKERMAN I'd rather see KYLE from bbcan play again and THAT is saying something #awful
fear	tweets	@BurmanAJ @AMANDAZUCKERMAN I'd rather see KYLE from bbcan play again and THAT is saying something
fear	tweets	If I could turn anxiety off--I would. #nooneunderstands #anxiety
fear	tweets	If I could turn anxiety off--I would. #nooneunderstands
fear	tweets	Sixth Form: see you at 8:30 in the morning 🎭 #revolting children #yr7 #assembly 🎭
fear	tweets	I'm so old next Friday. So super old😩💔 I dread birthdays
fear	tweets	Heyyyy warriors!!!!! #anxiety #panicattacks
fear	tweets	Heyyyy warriors!!!!!  #panicattacks
fear	tweets	This girl was shaking her drink in the break room and it wasn't fully closed and yeah it's all over the place now including me😑😑😂
fear	tweets	with terrorism a booming industry in Pak and govt. oblivious of the fact wt happens within its territory Talking Kashmir is Deranged
fear	tweets	@Apolocreed4 What is even more shocking is that someone gave him a record deal! lol
fear	tweets	@GenevievePere23 @swifttwinner13 WOW you're calling me bully bc I correct a typo?😂 harsh
fear	tweets	@thehill left wing panic because Hillary is weak and they know it this is a revolution a movement nothings going to help the left TrumpPence
fear	tweets	Brb, going 2 start killing random white people going about their normal days. Don't worry though i'm white, so they will safely apprehend me
fear	tweets	Projection is perception. See it in someone else? You also at some level have that within you. #anger #worry
fear	tweets	Projection is perception. See it in someone else? You also at some level have that within you. #anger
fear	tweets	@60DaysInJail Dafron is hands down the biggest loser on the planet!!! Typical #bully #lifer
fear	tweets	@60DaysInJail Dafron is hands down the biggest loser on the planet!!! Typical  #lifer
fear	tweets	Celtic sure know how to send a wild shiver down your spine
fear	tweets	A nation with a large part of the population living in #fear  of the police is neither #great nor #free  - it's actually a #fascist  nation
fear	tweets	@mcauley_ross rojo is awful
fear	tweets	Bilal Abood, #Iraq #immigrant who lives in Mesquite, Texas, was sentenced to 48 months in prison for lying to the Feds about #terrorism.
fear	tweets	Bilal Abood, #Iraq #immigrant who lives in Mesquite, Texas, was sentenced to 48 months in prison for lying to the Feds about .
fear	tweets	I'm a nervous wreck omg
fear	tweets	@LucasDrakeH @realDonaldTrump @GenFlynn @RandPaul @trump2016fan terrorist attack and terrorism already exists in the history of islam.
fear	tweets	@LaneWoolery @FFKazman experience all plays a role in that, it's education and preparedness not fear
fear	tweets	#heavyheart these last couple of days, who are the cause of this  #fear of losing someone close ? #amerikkka #kkkops #TerenceCrutcher
fear	tweets	@alyssaxbeauty nightmare before Christmas
fear	tweets	@MatherFamilys @SDICenter @CAllstadt \n\ndo REDNECKS intellectually intimidate you and force you to be their dancing clown?
fear	tweets	@InfluensterVox @irontekfit I love my #IronTekFit protein shake in the morning before yoga! #ESVoxbox
fear	tweets	@BuzzFeedAndrew @MattMurph24 start a countdown clock to reporting that pompous bully &amp; liar christie is asking president HRC for a pardon
fear	tweets	Sorry @wow_air definitely going with @Icelandair next time, this is beyond unreasonable @wowairsupport #terrible #yourappologiesmeannothing
fear	tweets	Sorry @wow_air definitely going with @Icelandair next time, this is beyond unreasonable @wowairsupport  #yourappologiesmeannothing
fear	tweets	THIS BOOK IS FRICKING INSANE LIKE HOLY CRAP. #panic
fear	tweets	THIS BOOK IS FRICKING INSANE LIKE HOLY CRAP.
fear	tweets	@abbeygray14 they're revolting
fear	tweets	@1StevieKilner @KachelaMurray Don't be silly - she doesn't want to scare them off! 😆
fear	tweets	@ParamjitGarewal way to go #London. Nice job electing a #muslim #jihadist for mayor. Good luck with your future #terror attacks #sadiqkhan
fear	tweets	Bring on my interview at hospital tho 🙈🙈 #nervous
fear	tweets	Bring on my interview at hospital tho 🙈🙈
fear	tweets	@therealkers awe I miss your sweet smile! Come visit me and @ciara_wilson26 sometime when we're not all working😅😩
fear	tweets	Back on my #bully
fear	tweets	Back on my
fear	tweets	I'm so bored and fat and full and ridiculously overweight and rolls galore #terrible
fear	tweets	I'm so bored and fat and full and ridiculously overweight and rolls galore
fear	tweets	Val downing a bottle of vodka there to stop her from shaking! #GBBO
fear	tweets	@PrinceJumbo You're welcome and thank to you likewise! What are you hoping to learn, like your no 1 concern?
fear	tweets	@erickogi @citizentvkenya @OfficialJMbugua but at what price. The near misses are too many, am afraid it may translate into something else
fear	tweets	I'd like to bridge the divide between Right and Left Twitter and say that the new Tweet truncating thing is fucking awful.
fear	tweets	@slashersocial #horror H3LL I SURE DID!!! LOL\nHappy about this decision. :)
fear	tweets	Hey @PapaJohnsUK I've been charged £40.24 on my credit card 4 an order which never arrived last Friday, any chance of a refund!! #nightmare
fear	tweets	Hey @PapaJohnsUK I've been charged £40.24 on my credit card 4 an order which never arrived last Friday, any chance of a refund!!
fear	tweets	I'm such a shy person oh my lord
fear	tweets	Hope I sleep - no nightmare of Bakewell tarts #yuk #revolting #GBBO
fear	tweets	Hope I sleep - no nightmare of Bakewell tarts #yuk  #GBBO
fear	tweets	Can't even believe just seeing you set my anxiety off 🖕
fear	tweets	Ya tremble like Mr. Cooper, yo we hanging
fear	tweets	@eliroth ya know I love ya man, but #TheGreenInferno really fucked with my head....(giggle)..do it again. #epic  #ineedtherapy
fear	tweets	@MarissaYerton wanna shake my tree??? 🍑🍑🍑🍑
fear	tweets	Throwback to when Khloe Kardashian was a host on The X Factor and she was fucking terrible at it
fear	tweets	two major banking stocks down almost 15 to 20 % from their highs while benchmarks still close to top it is a sure #worry for markets
fear	tweets	@WaterboysAS I would never strategically vote for someone I don't agree with. A lot of the Clinton vote based on fear and negativity.
fear	tweets	@Cassena13 I know if I wasn't an optimist I would despair.
fear	tweets	Most people never achieve their goals because they are afraid to fail.
fear	tweets	Just had my interview for the medical internship and I am beyond nervous😩 I was shaking so bad it was unreal😳
fear	tweets	@jk_rowling @Riverfeather207 Donald Trump in the White House #shudder
fear	tweets	@jk_rowling @Riverfeather207 Donald Trump in the White House
fear	tweets	@asda if I wanted GREEN POTATOES, a bottle with the tag still on, plus soaking wet items delivered - I'm winning today-sadly I didn't #awful
fear	tweets	@asda if I wanted GREEN POTATOES, a bottle with the tag still on, plus soaking wet items delivered - I'm winning today-sadly I didn't
fear	tweets	I'm just always too shy
fear	tweets	Need good vibes for my doctors appointment tomorrow! #nervous
fear	tweets	Need good vibes for my doctors appointment tomorrow!
fear	tweets	I'm just tryna watch horror movies and nap all day
fear	tweets	@yupdats_jess @nereriveraa_ this doesn't concern you OR your sister. So show up if you want too lol.
fear	tweets	@gingermckchav @MichCorsilles @ArevaMartin @HarvardBLSA @ShareblueMedia Apparently nothing like the terror cops have of black people.
fear	tweets	Editing a father of the bride speech. At 3 minutes in she tells him to wrap it up. He goes on for 12 more minutes. #nightmare
fear	tweets	Editing a father of the bride speech. At 3 minutes in she tells him to wrap it up. He goes on for 12 more minutes.
fear	tweets	On the last episode of #MakingAMurderer poor Brendan glad they #appeal it #shocking #crime #documentary #reallife
fear	tweets	On the last episode of #MakingAMurderer poor Brendan glad they #appeal it  #crime #documentary #reallife
fear	tweets	She is someone who rolls persuasion under intimidate and awkwardly wins. ALL THE TIME.' @sourfruitjunkie on @JakiDash.
fear	tweets	You shake like that?
fear	tweets	My wedding is in two weeks and I'm actually really nervous. I just want things to go right, I don't want to get sick or get canceled ;;
fear	tweets	Virtually every statement by other countries at UN has referred to #terror as main threat to peace, #Pak still in denial: MEA.
fear	tweets	@Phin_MacCool That’s shocking
fear	tweets	@FaithHill I remember it well #happy  #Positive
fear	tweets	@FaithHill I remember it well #happy #afraid #Positive
fear	tweets	@pronounced_ing However I am pretty sure my over excitement did not help your bullet journal fright. 🙃
fear	tweets	Don't be #afraid of the space between your #dreams and #reality. If you can #dream it, you can #make it so
fear	tweets	#picoftheday : How...why... Really... !!\n #funny #picoftheday #lol #random #laugh #chair #of  #funnypics #virgin #cafe #i...
fear	tweets	And it's hard to dance with a devil on your back\nSo shake him off.
fear	tweets	@Justin_Gau @JamesMelville You certainly wouldn't catch me with the multitude. #ghastly
fear	tweets	@Justin_Gau @JamesMelville You certainly wouldn't catch me with the multitude.
fear	tweets	❤︎I... I can't! I'm scared! Bees terrify me.
fear	tweets	@wowairsupport it world be great if the live support was actually helpful #nightmare
fear	tweets	@wowairsupport it world be great if the live support was actually helpful
fear	tweets	Think like a queen. A queen is not afraid to fail. Failure is another steppingstone to greatness. Oprah Winfrey
fear	tweets	@GambieRanger @David__Osland which is why a leader who is encouraging his supporters to deselect is such a concern for many of us.
fear	tweets	@imtarakate Uggh that's really horrible. You're not a bad person by any stretch of the imagination. I hope this person realizes that.
fear	tweets	My life is going downhill at an alarming rate
fear	tweets	If u know anything about football help me out here, who should I start
fear	tweets	Don't understand reason for #Muslim countries citing #terrorism as reason for not taking #refugees. Aren't #terror attacks against infidels?
fear	tweets	Can't believe @haven ring my parents NOW when they go tomorrow to say no disabled washing facility for my wheelchair bound dad #shocking
fear	tweets	Can't believe @haven ring my parents NOW when they go tomorrow to say no disabled washing facility for my wheelchair bound dad
fear	tweets	MSM stoking #fear. Please remember the beautiful prayerful protests in Dallas and Atlanta. Smile at a stranger. We make each other strong.
fear	tweets	@nytimes I'm trying to imagine the first response of a President Trump to an act of terror. The thought itself terrorizes me.
fear	tweets	@City_tv  is like the big bully in class ruining everyone's lunch but instead of taking our lunch money they took away family feud #bully
fear	tweets	@City_tv  is like the big bully in class ruining everyone's lunch but instead of taking our lunch money they took away family feud
fear	tweets	That rocky horror remake looks a bit w a n k
fear	tweets	I wonder if Corey will vote for Nicole?? #snacole #bb18 #paulsgonnawin #finale #halfamill #nervous
fear	tweets	I wonder if Corey will vote for Nicole?? #snacole #bb18 #paulsgonnawin #finale #halfamill
fear	tweets	@wittyneeraj What is Shehla Rashid &amp; Kaniyah Kumar saying about you ? and when they say truth indians threaten them. #FakeDemocracy
fear	tweets	@escotony sorry to hear about your experience, however, please do not hesitate to contact us via live chat or email at askdysonUS@dyson.com
fear	tweets	@jdwmaguire 'They will be a formidable challenge' Roy Hodgson on Northampton Town *shudders*
fear	tweets	Knowing I have my hair to wash and dry is like knowing you had that English close reading in your school bag to do #dread
fear	tweets	Knowing I have my hair to wash and dry is like knowing you had that English close reading in your school bag to do
fear	tweets	@TweetinderKaul @rupasubramanya @chandanwriter @TheQuint @ShivAroor future convicts rush in where TRP hogs fear to tread #HomilyHour
fear	tweets	I'm sorry but since when is an #indiegames #DLC worth nearly £130 that's just plain lunacy when the game itself is £20odd, #astounded 😱
fear	tweets	@GambinoDeeJay @Linda76Graham @mikeeshy \n\nAnd also, trying to find it on Youtube is a fucking nightmare.
fear	tweets	Noooooo @GBBOUK without #MaryBerry will be #awful #endofanera going 2b so #lost @Channel4 have bought a #lameduck there #notallaboutthemoney
fear	tweets	@LucidHurricane_ wait, you mean he wasn't armed with a book? #shocking
fear	tweets	@LucidHurricane_ wait, you mean he wasn't armed with a book?
fear	tweets	I realized that it is not #death that I #fear but it is the act of dying. \n#life
fear	tweets	@AlZeidenfeld @DavisMattek @FI_GPP_Quotes @LoughyFI @FantasyInsiders terrible handle, but I owe whoever runs it a lot. #GPPHallMonitor
fear	tweets	Mom you remember when Narley died? You cried like a baby! #bully
fear	tweets	Mom you remember when Narley died? You cried like a baby!
fear	tweets	@CornflakeDaddy @youngvulgarian Yeah, it was sooo horrific, I needed to sit down
fear	tweets	#TerrorStatePak @sardesairajdeep Pakistan invitadated 4 times in India and why we worry to invade our own land #PoK?  Which is disputed.
fear	tweets	This white lady just told me that I incite suspicion based on how I look, being 6'4', having tatoos, athletic build and wear a durag. WOW!
fear	tweets	😂 - youre one of those whod bully me omg but it was all banter and we could laugh at it later haha. Youre a nice guy x
fear	tweets	-normal people scare me*
fear	tweets	@HMiglino @CParks777 @Coco_Wms @bodyfit67 @TruthEqualsFact @politicususa I have never been more anxious of a election in my life‼️
fear	tweets	@HMiglino @CParks777 @Coco_Wms @bodyfit67 @TruthEqualsFact @politicususa I have never been more anxious of a election in my life‼️ #fearful
fear	tweets	Happy birthday to Stephen King, a man responsible for some of the best horror of the past 40 years... and a whole bunch of the worst.
fear	tweets	Last night my stomach was hurting and today I have a horrible headache. I can never win
fear	tweets	@Amphabio don't kill it bees are dying at an alarming rate
fear	tweets	@HotRodArchie @qadkins79 I have noticed since #HillarysHeath has become an issue the left is going full panic mode. #NTAC
fear	tweets	@MoviesTVNetwork Wow, did you get a really good buy on a bunch of '70's movies? There were bad then and are worse now! #awful
fear	tweets	@MoviesTVNetwork Wow, did you get a really good buy on a bunch of '70's movies? There were bad then and are worse now!
fear	tweets	Caballero is shocking
fear	tweets	Ffs dreadful defending
fear	tweets	The #secret to all of every industry: just #start doing it...somehow people forget that they never gave you #permission.' - @thomaslennon
fear	tweets	@AaronRodgers12 You will tell people not to  panic. But let see when was the last year the best QB in the NFL got his team in the SB???
fear	tweets	@BBCwaste I would imagine he'd shake them up a tad... @afneil
fear	tweets	@blessspalding awe isa love u hoe thanks
fear	tweets	#Pakistan is ‘terrorist state’, carries out #war crimes: #India to @UN.\n#UNGA #terrorism #UN
fear	tweets	#Pakistan is ‘terrorist state’, carries out #war crimes: #India to @UN.\n #UNGA  #UN
fear	tweets	to shake and my mouth was chattering and I couldn't take right because all of my body was trembling so I went outside
fear	tweets	Chart music is pretty much ALL the same.. #horrific
fear	tweets	Chart music is pretty much ALL the same..
fear	tweets	@Cernovich It's like the horror movie The Hills Have Eyes...
fear	tweets	just looked at wood's goal again and i dont think his first chance is that bad a miss, horrible height hit hard and level,did well to hit it
fear	tweets	@SimplyMayaMarie @STILLStanding_B 😂😂😂 y'all know I'm crazy its just shocking that's all
fear	tweets	Loving @challengesophie @TEDx talk #challenge #fear #map #inspiration #stayunstoppable
fear	tweets	Loving @challengesophie @TEDx talk #challenge  #map #inspiration #stayunstoppable
fear	tweets	@tomsteinfort expected i thought #fear
fear	tweets	@tomsteinfort expected i thought
fear	tweets	I get discouraged because I try for 5 fucking years a contact with Lady Gaga but are thousands of tweets, how she would see my tweet? :(
fear	tweets	@NigeriainfoFM #start football league, I think we should talk about the managers way of selection
fear	tweets	Realized I intimidate people with low Self Esteem a long time ago. I only surround myself with Winners and people who know how to get money
fear	tweets	Marcus Roho is dreadful
fear	tweets	#travelfail #virgin #virginaus and #etihad #nightmare ... And now we're also delayed. #obvs 🙄😠
fear	tweets	@Its_just_Huong I will beat you !!! Always thought id be gryffindor so this is a whole new world for me 😨😨😨 #excited #afraid
fear	tweets	@Its_just_Huong I will beat you !!! Always thought id be gryffindor so this is a whole new world for me 😨😨😨 #excited
fear	tweets	I don't know what WiFi/ISP Rivertide Suites in Seaside #Oregon uses. But 53ms ping best I can get and a D/L test won't complete..
fear	tweets	I don't know what WiFi/ISP Rivertide Suites in Seaside #Oregon uses. But 53ms ping best I can get and a D/L test won't complete.. #terrible
fear	tweets	@Rovers what highlights ? I would imagine you will only have 30 seconds of highlights for the whole season so far #shocking. #venkysout
fear	tweets	@Rovers what highlights ? I would imagine you will only have 30 seconds of highlights for the whole season so far . #venkysout
fear	tweets	happiness is... not having to set the alarm clock for the next day
fear	tweets	#Afghanistan Vice President Sarwar Danish slams #Pakistan for breeding #terrorism during UNGA address\n@UN #USA
fear	tweets	@eliroth ya know I love ya man, but #TheGreenInferno really fucked with my head....(giggle)..do it again.#epic #horror #ineedtherapy
fear	tweets	I'm ready for October. Cooler weather and more #horror flicks on TV.
fear	tweets	@CGasparino Give it up Gas, I don't hate u, I just don't respect ur rudeness. #bully
fear	tweets	@CGasparino Give it up Gas, I don't hate u, I just don't respect ur rudeness.
fear	tweets	@joshgad My three year old asked me if Trump was a bad man, like a bully. After saying yes he's a bully, my son said mute him. We did!
fear	tweets	@priorJoan @MizQue \nActually pretty typical of trump supporters\nThis kid learned birtherism in school\nThat's horrific
fear	tweets	We Are Source!!\n\n #mindset #philosophy #thoughtsbecomethings #news #lifehacks  #you #LIFE #PleaseRT #ProblemSolving
fear	tweets	am actual stranded at ma dad's maself n the fuckin fire alarm went off n a dunno if it's just for his gaff or the whole building :)
fear	tweets	Most snapchat filters look terrible when you have glasses on
fear	tweets	All I ever wanted was a chance. I'm so psyched to start this new chapter! #newbeginnings #timetoprovemyself #morethanready
fear	tweets	@caseycdutch @m_rath that's what some rioters are doing #terrorism
fear	tweets	@caseycdutch @m_rath that's what some rioters are doing
fear	tweets	@cresbots dw I think cheeks are the most attractive thing in guys too it's terrible tbh
fear	tweets	Getting ready to open the tastings at Whisky Shop Dufftown Autumn festival! #panic #murraymcdavid #whisky #drams
fear	tweets	Getting ready to open the tastings at Whisky Shop Dufftown Autumn festival!  #murraymcdavid #whisky #drams
fear	tweets	@ScmCIafIin 'Don't you know how nervous I was to see you?'
fear	tweets	@SeanLTheWriter Agree 100%... B. Marshall another concern... would much rather he rested this game...
fear	tweets	@ClaretNBlues forest gate u could see he was a bully cunt big bald cunt his mates looked in shock when I hit him and didn't do shit when he
fear	tweets	@dburka I'm not sure what's worse: that, or the use of Comic Sans on a website (or anywhere else)  #shudder #comicsans
fear	tweets	@dburka I'm not sure what's worse: that, or the use of Comic Sans on a website (or anywhere else)  #comicsans
fear	tweets	@EmilySmissaert @navinrmal it's a shocking revelation!!!!
fear	tweets	@BenjySarlin @MargieOmero @MonmouthPoll not to worry, he'll flip Wisconsin
fear	tweets	@TheJonFedor @abdophoto My main hesitation to going to the Plus size. But if Apple can get the Plus to the 6 size, think of the ASP jump
fear	tweets	Shriekfest is lining up VOLUNTEERS! Oct 6-9, only serious inquiries please!  shriekfest@aol.com  see free films!
fear	tweets	@PridefulSamurai horrible things
fear	tweets	🙃 back to school aka back to social anxiety 🙃
fear	tweets	@gmbremer is his shoulder a legit concern? 'Expects to play' isn't reassuring 2 games into the season after having shoulder problems.
fear	tweets	@ryleycathryn @Mack_Shepp did you discover the alarming rate at which bees are dying and how important they are to our way of life?
fear	tweets	haww I think Nawaz should have spoken about Indian funding to BLA in Balochistan, Kulbhoshan Yadhav and how India used TTP for terror!
fear	tweets	@sethwieck you should do a TED Talk on 'bubledygook'! I'm sure you could convince the masses to distrust those decrying TED Talks!
fear	tweets	US lady in foyer - 'Am I not #afraid to be tweeting in #Moscow?' Fortified by d good #Lord &amp; #JD I reply 'I fear no Russian. 'cept my #wife😅
fear	tweets	@makemytripcare but what I am doing is in my control, #AvoidMMT , you guys are #terrible
fear	tweets	@makemytripcare but what I am doing is in my control, #AvoidMMT , you guys are
fear	tweets	me: loves being the center of attention in every way\nalso me: gets nervous to talk in front of class
fear	tweets	Body is sleepy but the mind is active. So sad... Have to get ready for work in 30 minutes. Damn! #restless
fear	tweets	Body is sleepy but the mind is active. So sad... Have to get ready for work in 30 minutes. Damn!
fear	tweets	@MLB @JoeyBats19 Sam Dyson is probably having flashbacks right about now. #nightmare
fear	tweets	@MLB @JoeyBats19 Sam Dyson is probably having flashbacks right about now.
fear	tweets	It's a Moving Day! #stress #panic #hope
fear	tweets	It's a Moving Day! #stress  #hope
fear	tweets	@JordanChariton If that doesn't out Dem's in panic mode then I don't know what will...
fear	tweets	Go away please ... I'm begging »»» #depression #anxiety #worry #fear #sadness \nDreams of joy and my baby to be found...Sits on #AndisBench
fear	tweets	@warrensarahh @CjKiid awe, miss y'all too!:)
fear	tweets	@Mista_Nightmare i dont understand why u do videos every week spend time with your family instead of working on horror #takeabreak
fear	tweets	It's pretty clear I can't stand @HillaryClinton, no tolerance for habitual liars. Not a Trump fan either so what's a citizen to do?
fear	tweets	It's pretty clear I can't stand @HillaryClinton, no tolerance for habitual liars. Not a Trump fan either so what's a citizen to do? #despair
fear	tweets	@BBTooms This is perfect example of why what paul said about her, was right.  One of the most ignorant competitors ive seen. #bully #c$%t
fear	tweets	@OddNMacabre One day I'm drinking a bottle of nyquil, the other I'm sleeping zero. My lovely #horror fam, which should i watch? 🎩
fear	tweets	Wine drunk is the worst version of myself ffs, don't even remember seeing basshunter #shocking
fear	tweets	Wine drunk is the worst version of myself ffs, don't even remember seeing basshunter
fear	tweets	Omg I actually thought she was going to jump. #bully #SouthPark20 #southpark
fear	tweets	Omg I actually thought she was going to jump.  #SouthPark20 #southpark
fear	tweets	@ETimsNet I wanted him dropped a while ago. Its a concern for us no doubt
fear	tweets	T minus 10 hours till I meet with a designer who wants me to model his new fashion line 😬😶 #nervous!!!
fear	tweets	T minus 10 hours till I meet with a designer who wants me to model his new fashion line 😬😶 !!!
fear	tweets	Val having a nervous breakdown #floss #GBBO
fear	tweets	@lilpeachbbyy dude dead ass she said if she came she'd start shit with Amy &amp; literally Amy didn't do anything but cal her out on her BS
fear	tweets	I need to learn to be in one place at one time and try not to worry about everything all at once
fear	tweets	@Roger_Dagenham Aye. There's a brief window in both morning and afternoon otherwise just horrific until late evening.
fear	tweets	Never fear the want of business. A man who qualifies himself well for his calling, never fails of employment.
fear	tweets	Mary Berry and her reign of terror
fear	tweets	*in the car with mariah, the bass is literally shaking the windows, hard rap blasting, no one is talking, looking straight ahead*
fear	tweets	He accusd India of HR violations in Kashmir BUT refusd to name India's role in fomenting terror in Pakistan through TTP, BLA &amp; MQM.shame #ZH
fear	tweets	@HillaryClinton Americans for HRC! Now maybe, as you see the world getting rid of terror to save their countries you'll get the  DEMS out.
fear	tweets	If a cop is going to pull a gun on you for no reason at all and threaten you, you should be able to merk his ass and walk away.
fear	tweets	@ShannonBeador we know the truth about her, the public is figuring it out. Her words mean nothing. #unhappy #mean #troubled #vile
fear	tweets	I forgot #BB18 was on tonight 😳 that is how much the real world has been distracting me #horrid 🙅🏼🙈🙊
fear	tweets	@Ganypede I notice that nice people believe in a nice god and horrid people believe in a horrid god who happens to hate everybody they hate.
fear	tweets	Michael Carrick should start every game for United and England
fear	tweets	@WelshGasDoc @PlaidCymru supporter @reesmarshall239 #prejudice against #disabled people #disabledlivesmatter #bully #bbcnews #skynews
fear	tweets	@WelshGasDoc @PlaidCymru supporter @reesmarshall239 #prejudice against #disabled people #disabledlivesmatter  #bbcnews #skynews
fear	tweets	@amychozick @jswatz Not a word about terrorism.
fear	tweets	i had a panic attack the other night because i thought my mum was out but she was actually downstairs and she started bashing around hrjdjd
fear	tweets	@TheOneSoleShoe You're doing a terrible job exemplifying the values you espouse. Yesterday you lamented losing a generation of voters...
fear	tweets	Arguing with these people doesn't work anyway, they just threaten to put you in death camps.
fear	tweets	@wrexham I've joined holidog, paw shake and tailster and have one regular customer I just love it 🙈🙈haha @EmilyHD26 @ellshd
fear	tweets	Will you #dedicate today to #love or #fear ? It is your #choice in each #moment . - Archangel Michael. #archangel #michael
fear	tweets	Machine keeps beeping* \nNurse: Don't worry. You're all good. Vitals are normal for your size. \n*Walks back out* \nMatt: so you're dying....😑😂
fear	tweets	Has anyone else had a bad experience with Poundstretcher? #nightmare firm
fear	tweets	Embarrassing lack of defensive depth coming back to haunt us.
fear	tweets	@Owlman2011 @charitypricey @jon_newsome @PRAWNSANDOWl @smith_alister @MikeConnelly9 average 22000 for the massif... #shocking
fear	tweets	@Owlman2011 @charitypricey @jon_newsome @PRAWNSANDOWl @smith_alister @MikeConnelly9 average 22000 for the massif...
fear	tweets	When @idinamenzel says she's releasing more #IdinaParty tickets and you set an alarm to not miss it... #fingerscrossed #Idina.
fear	tweets	As #life gets longer, #awful feels #softer, well it #feels pretty soft to me. #modestmouse @modestmouseband
fear	tweets	@AzyraiZelo I am shy xD
fear	tweets	Wow what a thought!  #JudgeLynnToler 'I can't have the specter of this morning's problem haunt my afternoon.' Well written! That 1 sentence
fear	tweets	@BouchetPetersen @libe @dom_albertini @DavidDoucet Imposuture intellectuelle ! #préjugés #intolérance #personnalitéAutoritaire #intimidation
fear	tweets	@BouchetPetersen @libe @dom_albertini @DavidDoucet Imposuture intellectuelle ! #préjugés #intolérance #personnalitéAutoritaire
fear	tweets	@wholegrainne Sweden win + Finland win, or NA win + Finland win, NA win + Russia win + timebreakers shake down right
fear	tweets	Radio shake mutli directional mike it might sound cheap but the sound wasn't that bad and you could do some mixing.
fear	tweets	.@monsoonuk Ordered before 10pm last night, paid for next day. Didn't bother to fufill order. Now 14 working days for a refund! #shocking
fear	tweets	.@monsoonuk Ordered before 10pm last night, paid for next day. Didn't bother to fufill order. Now 14 working days for a refund!
fear	tweets	Gosh #anxiety attacks turning into #Panic attacks are fucking ugly ....
fear	tweets	i am SO anxious all the time leaving the house is horrid
fear	tweets	I always dread Wednesday's and the always end up making me the happiest
fear	tweets	I have serious separation anxiety 😭😭💔
fear	tweets	On my life I'll never understand why anyone would pay money to see @LifeOfDesiigner #terrible
fear	tweets	On my life I'll never understand why anyone would pay money to see @LifeOfDesiigner
fear	tweets	#Peiyophobilia :) An advice from @anirudhofficial don't fear for #Devil! Sure shot✌ @iam_str voice more energetic.Xtremly foot tapping one 👌
fear	tweets	@MoonPendent13 One of my friends has a fear of mirrors because he tried to summon Bloody Mary, and he thinks she's going to pop up any time!
fear	tweets	I'm not afraid to love, I'm afraid of not being loved back.
fear	tweets	@ThomasHCrown @laurakfillault As a historic evangelical, I wonder if the Donatists had a point? What dreadful clergy in my fmr. circles.
fear	tweets	tomorrow will be the last episode of despair arc, so much shit is gonna happen i'm not emotionally prepared...
fear	tweets	@loismackey_ @Dory nah way that's horrible
fear	tweets	I need to think of a new Avatar for Fire Emblem Revelation as I might start playing it soon, any ideas for names? What gender do I choose
fear	tweets	I am going to make it my life's mission to discourage anyone from using @CapitalOne. They will rob you blind
fear	tweets	I have a fear of failure but no urge to be productive
fear	tweets	@HoustonTexans just trying to go home tonight? A run on 2nd and 20 and a run on 3rd and 20? That's what champs do...#sike #losers #terrible
fear	tweets	Another day Another flight 🙈  I swear my last ever @easyjet flight!!!! You take the LOVE out of flying #easyjet #horrific #alwaysdelayed
fear	tweets	Another day Another flight 🙈  I swear my last ever @easyjet flight!!!! You take the LOVE out of flying #easyjet  #alwaysdelayed
fear	tweets	Some of these fb comments and/or tweets should make some people realize why black Americans feel the way they do 😳
fear	tweets	Some of these fb comments and/or tweets should make some people realize why black Americans feel the way they do 😳 #terrible
fear	tweets	Goodmorning fam, do you know that your critical condition pave way for your miracle, so #dont #worry #be #happy
fear	tweets	Goodmorning fam, do you know that your critical condition pave way for your miracle, so #dont  #be #happy
fear	tweets	#2 complained then while his head and then called do not despair of God's mercy if you did sins go back to him and ask his forgiveness
fear	tweets	@cazzrhughes its reflective of the current political debate #awful
fear	tweets	@cazzrhughes its reflective of the current political debate
fear	tweets	And they cover these police shootings fairly well they dont want to miss a chance to bully you
fear	tweets	@JoyOfBearding The Haunting is my favorite horror movie too! Actually one of my favorite movies of all time no matter the genre.
fear	tweets	@MannersAboveAll *laughs louder this time, shaking my head* That was really cheesy, wasn't it?
fear	tweets	.@morningmika &amp; her @HillaryClinton Super PAC @Morning_Joe @MSNBC in full #panic mode over @realDonaldTrump #momentum!\n\n#TrumpPence16 #MAGA
fear	tweets	Hey @gmail why can I only see 15 sent emails? Where's the thousands gone?  #panic
fear	tweets	Hey @gmail why can I only see 15 sent emails? Where's the thousands gone?
fear	tweets	Migraine hangover all day. Stood up to do dishes and now I'm exhausted again. GAD, depression &amp; chronic pain #anxiety #depression #pain
fear	tweets	Migraine hangover all day. Stood up to do dishes and now I'm exhausted again. GAD, depression &amp; chronic pain  #depression #pain
fear	tweets	That defending was awful from us!
fear	tweets	@SurfaceSupport A profoundly disappointing experience. I have 2 pay almost $500 2 remedy a defect n the product @Microsoft sold me
fear	tweets	@SurfaceSupport A profoundly disappointing experience. I have 2 pay almost $500 2 remedy a defect n the product @Microsoft sold me #terrible
fear	tweets	♪OLD FISH  #discourage
fear	tweets	♪OLD FISH
fear	tweets	@JonRiley7 #VoteYourConscience or succumb to #fear? 'He is #scary, he is #dangerous!' -@HillaryClinton's #alarmist #PATRIOTACT platform.
fear	tweets	Huge congrats to my friends at @VoidMovie on the #USAPREMIERE tomorrow! #film #horror #thevoid #featurefilm #scaryshit
fear	tweets	Huge congrats to my friends at @VoidMovie on the #USAPREMIERE tomorrow! #film  #thevoid #featurefilm #scaryshit
fear	tweets	The time has now come that we have to combat this wave of #terrorism with the right tools of the trade. - HH @YounusAlGohar #BanWahhabism
fear	tweets	#amwriting #horror in the dark and a loud creaking door noise is coming from the kitchen. There are no doors there to creak. WTF.
fear	tweets	I really wanna take advantage of UofW's gym but i'm shy af.
fear	tweets	Q&amp;A with N. Christie @westernuHistory: fr. @marybethstart: What would Peter and Dardanella think of us knowing? #poorthings #shy
fear	tweets	Q&amp;A with N. Christie @westernuHistory: fr. @marybethstart: What would Peter and Dardanella think of us knowing? #poorthings
fear	tweets	Proud of you for overcoming your fear of deep water @ShawnMendes
fear	tweets	tesco. why OH why cant my Visa electron be accepted on line , I am 55 , NOT 15 ?? #shocking
fear	tweets	tesco. why OH why cant my Visa electron be accepted on line , I am 55 , NOT 15 ??
fear	tweets	Remember your journey is unique! Don't get discouraged because you're comparing your journey to someone else's. You will get there!
fear	tweets	I'm so confused by the new American horror story 😩
fear	tweets	@Jpennifan OH sorry for your divorce but don't worry I will be a good wife then (no reference)
fear	tweets	@indiamarshall_ that's great! It's not easy!\n&amp; it's amazing when nervousness turns into adrenaline 😂\nHad you had concerts as soloist before?
fear	tweets	I think I may have a mild anxiety problem. I think that's what this feeling may be..
fear	tweets	@SenatorReid @HillaryClinton @DanEggenWPost @realDonaldTrump Even the painting is orange!  #Election2016
fear	tweets	@SenatorReid @HillaryClinton @DanEggenWPost @realDonaldTrump Even the painting is orange!  #terrible #Election2016
fear	tweets	I never let anything below me concern me.
fear	tweets	@Koishiteruze she was scare not knowing what to do
fear	tweets	@TheFienPrint So true &amp; well said. It seems ve old fashioned looking back on it. I liked Robbie on TV. Not loving all these movies #aghast!
fear	tweets	@TheFienPrint So true &amp; well said. It seems ve old fashioned looking back on it. I liked Robbie on TV. Not loving all these movies !
fear	tweets	@The_East_End And the air raid alarm was actually false.  There was no attack inbound at the time.
fear	tweets	I'm in awe
fear	tweets	The horrible puns for the day have been made. I shall return to my cage in a dark corner by myself while crying &amp; laughing hysterical now.
fear	tweets	So much #terrible #music playing on the #radio has started to make me wonder weather my taste in music is good or just completely shit
fear	tweets	@OpheliaMCFLY_GD yes!! Once I'm done with people I'm really done.... lying to me is the worse thing someone can do I'm a nightmare 😂
fear	tweets	That was a fast response madrid.....Zidane threaten unuh
fear	tweets	@joeyskawaii i know i don't know u, but physiatrists are seriously the number one best thing for people with anxiety.
fear	tweets	So I just opened This message Brooke sent me got me I am weak as the fuck 😩 she is a fucking bully for no reason 😂😂😂😂😭💀
fear	tweets	Let's refuse to live in #fear - #sotoventures
fear	tweets	If her legs aren't shaking, you're not doing it right.
fear	tweets	If children live with #ridicule, they learn to feel
fear	tweets	If children live with #ridicule, they learn to feel #shy
fear	tweets	i have so much hair it's a nightmare but it's also very soft so it guess it's a win-lose situation
fear	tweets	@breadf2man @SunApology and it's Kelvin Mackenzie tomorrow... #shudder DontBuyTheSun
fear	tweets	@keyshamackie it's fucking dreadful for live footy matches
fear	tweets	I am a third year college student and and English major. Today is the first time I've ever written an essay without having a panic attack
fear	tweets	If you follow #Trump, a certified #bully there is no question you or your children may go to #War vs consumate #Diplomat @HillaryClinton
fear	tweets	@AnthonyEinzig I'm so sorry. This is heartbreaking and so scary. If it can happen there it can happen anywhere. Please be safe 🙏🏻
fear	tweets	@AnthonyEinzig I'm so sorry. This is heartbreaking and so scary. If it can happen there it can happen anywhere. Please be safe 🙏🏻 #terror
fear	tweets	#WTF @NYSCHereToHelp @NYSC allows #gym  #atmosphere! #jumpship #nasty #atmosphere #unprofessional
fear	tweets	@AskLloydsBank #worst exec complaints ever #horrific customer journey
fear	tweets	I'm not afraid of clowns but I'm really hoping they don't make an appearance around my hometown.
fear	tweets	Somewhere I rd a rpt tht Pakis wr afraid of TSD &amp; asked it 2 shut dn. Congis obliged &amp; exposed it,hounded them.time to revive. #BadlaofUri
fear	tweets	Tho we haven't talked Jeff but the news is so sad and shocking. R.I.P Jeffrey
fear	tweets	Tremor!!!\n
fear	tweets	Tremor!!!\n #tremor
fear	tweets	@carlymarierozy @makeupsue it's sad but now we are making our own children vulnerable to the same terror.
fear	tweets	Welp, I'm off to get my #anxiety meds now. #Empire
fear	tweets	I just want to be in Canada rn 😭 awe
fear	tweets	😩😩😩😩 heads melted, very tired but can't sleep. #nightmare
fear	tweets	😩😩😩😩 heads melted, very tired but can't sleep.
fear	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause they see the happy exterior, not the hopelessness I sometimes feel inside. #depression  #anxietyprobz
fear	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause they see the happy exterior, not the hopelessness I sometimes feel inside. #depression #anxiety #anxietyprobz
fear	tweets	I'm literally never home and my parents threaten to charge rent if I don't start cleaning the house everyday. OK.
fear	tweets	@todofuku dreadful day at work n now im gonna be late for class n im covered in paint, n now i have to work a night shift too :/
fear	tweets	So looks like @united would rather lose all my business, than let me apply my credits towards my change fee, due to terrorism
fear	tweets	UPLIFT: If you're still discouraged it means you're listening to the wrong voices &amp; looking to the wrong source. Look to the LORD!
fear	tweets	@yellowsuburbia really?? after so long that's shocking tbh
fear	tweets	#NawazSharif says India poses unacceptable conditions to dialogue.#India's only condition is an end to #terrorism. :@MEAIndia
fear	tweets	Mary Berry - what's the icing on top of your Bakewell tart? It looks like horrid Mr Kipling, not something Derbyshire would recognise #GBBO
fear	tweets	okay false alarm it's working again
fear	tweets	@iTriborg — make him feel vigorous. 'Fine. You can kill me now.' Said Hestia with a display of only despair rather than her joyful —
fear	tweets	Beginning the process to see if working is an option. #mentalhealth #complexptsd #nervous
fear	tweets	Beginning the process to see if working is an option. #mentalhealth #complexptsd
fear	tweets	@n_harrill awe! Thank you! 😊😊
fear	tweets	They want as police state, they are fearful imbeciles..@interpretingall @mikefar1974 @MetalMilitia74 @Cmvazquez103
fear	tweets	@ZachZaidman  shocking
fear	tweets	@GeordieTommy_ @Xbox High school or not, it's still shocking. Just because you love Xbox. Good luck tomorrow! 💪
fear	tweets	Goodbye everyone, tremendous #LTHEchat tonight
fear	tweets	@ManUtd carrick and Herrera proved their worth last night. What more does Rooney need to do to get dropped #awful. Rashford needs to start
fear	tweets	With only 7 months left until I possess my undergraduate degree, I feel like I can't handle adulthood anymore #anxiety #nojobsinbiology
fear	tweets	With only 7 months left until I possess my undergraduate degree, I feel like I can't handle adulthood anymore  #nojobsinbiology
fear	tweets	You know you exercised good when your limbs are shaking afterwards 😂
fear	tweets	Ask yourself every day: \nam I ruled by fear and hatred \nor am I ruled by love and the sacred?
fear	tweets	This brother know we know that his life was not in danger. This gun law got people in this country fearing for their life. White people.
fear	tweets	😭 a #nightmare just woke me up 😭
fear	tweets	Just over a week until I start my new job in F1! Looking forward to it and cacking myself at the same time! #nervous
fear	tweets	Just over a week until I start my new job in F1! Looking forward to it and cacking myself at the same time!
fear	tweets	I'm mad at the injustice, so I'm going to smash my neighbours windows'.  Makes perfect sense. #CharlotteProtest
fear	tweets	I'm mad at the injustice, so I'm going to smash my neighbours windows'.  Makes perfect sense.  #CharlotteProtest #terrible
fear	tweets	@_Adam_Price @WalesPolitics  Am afraid you're at back of BBC queue, editorially trumped by Ron Davies and bicycle paths
fear	tweets	Being shy is the biggest struggle of my life. 🙄
fear	tweets	@tcarrels  \nSo when exactly did you lose your mind, pal? \n #Trump #fraud #misogynist #liar #psychopath #narcissist  #conartist
fear	tweets	@tcarrels  \nSo when exactly did you lose your mind, pal? \n#Trump #fraud #misogynist #liar #psychopath #narcissist #revolting #conartist
fear	tweets	Newly engaged Stevie Wonder has been trying to disguise #the #awful smell from his throat: with a leather jacket made from a broken Wii.
fear	tweets	But this is the internet age, so get mad out of any and all proportion and assume the terrible worst with little to no facts or knowledge.
fear	tweets	there are magpies gathering around me help I'm going to be swooped ! #terrorism
fear	tweets	there are magpies gathering around me help I'm going to be swooped !
fear	tweets	He's intimidated by my work ethic I think he knows I want his spot 🤔😉😂😂
fear	tweets	I've said it before and I'll say it again: It's God! All God! Only God! #awe #archippusawakening #entirelybyhisgrace
fear	tweets	I've said it before and I'll say it again: It's God! All God! Only God!  #archippusawakening #entirelybyhisgrace
fear	tweets	@susanbrodigan @lyricconcert Ha yes- the look of despair!
fear	tweets	@ATTCares this really sucks how much your customer service sucks. I've been hung up on three times and this is absolutely horrible.
fear	tweets	@_JuliaSteiner : YES ! Right ? I mean I wish you hadn't been discouraged to see #MikeandMolly because so many parallels really -
fear	tweets	What did y'all do to your app @NFLfantasy   It's horrible.  #horrible.  Worst except once ever
fear	tweets	Df not be afraid to take a chance on peace, to teach peace, to live peace.Peace will be the last wordvof history Pope John Paul II
fear	tweets	Worry makes you look at the problem and God makes you look at the promise. #problem #promise #worry #fear #faith #God #theanswer #spiritu...
fear	tweets	@SEPTA 45 minutes late &amp; counting! #horrible CTT Service sucks!
fear	tweets	I had really strange and awful dreams last night. I'd didn't even eat cheese before bed #nightmare #lovemysleep
fear	tweets	I had really strange and awful dreams last night. I'd didn't even eat cheese before bed  #lovemysleep
fear	tweets	@darcomafloy OMG IM CRYING HAHAHAHA ikaw talaga tagagising ko HAHA shet i set my alarm BUT I FORGOT TO TURN IT ON but im awake now so--
fear	tweets	im so tired but i still have thisbhuge history test in a few minutes i cant afford to get freaked out now oh god if i have an anxiety attack
fear	tweets	@swarbleflop @LightskinJesuSP they're both pretty awful when you look at them historically
fear	tweets	The #movie Vantage Point makes my palms sweat EVERY time I watch it!!! #nervous 😥😥
fear	tweets	but throughout that entire thing I was shaking rlly bad and my heart was racing and I was almost in tears lmao (thanks mr.*****)
fear	tweets	@chloemcaleese what a nightmare!
fear	tweets	Was actually just watching AHS while half covering my eyes #scared #Roanoke  #AHSRoanoke
fear	tweets	Was actually just watching AHS while half covering my eyes #scared #Roanoke #nightmare #AHSRoanoke
fear	tweets	@TheSidEudy PS: I still think your broken leg against Scott Steiner was one of the most horrific injuries I've ever seen in the ring #ccot
fear	tweets	The anxiety I have right now😭😭😭
fear	tweets	@ceIestialfoxx I don't even remember that part 😅 the movie wasn't terrible, it just wasn't very scary and I expected a better ending 🙄
fear	tweets	I don't get how people can leave their phone on don't disturb all day...does your mom not threaten you when you don't respond within seconds
fear	tweets	Side chick's be trying to fuck u like your going to forget about your wife when your done. #terrible
fear	tweets	Side chick's be trying to fuck u like your going to forget about your wife when your done.
fear	tweets	If I'm working and I know you're working., keep in touch with other woman cuz you make me nervous... #OffTop
fear	tweets	I don't know what's worse, the new Pizza Hut commercials or the pizza that Pizza Hut makes. #horrible
fear	tweets	I don't know what's worse, the new Pizza Hut commercials or the pizza that Pizza Hut makes.
fear	tweets	Left my phone in Mcds #panic
fear	tweets	Left my phone in Mcds
fear	tweets	The cure for anxiety is an intimate relationship with Christ. - 1 John 4:18 #anxiety
fear	tweets	The cure for anxiety is an intimate relationship with Christ. - 1 John 4:18
fear	tweets	@HartRamsey #UPLIFT If you're still discouraged it means UR Listening to the wrong voices &amp; looking to the wrong source. Look to the LORD!
fear	tweets	Being alone is better than being lonely. Know what is worse than being lonely? Being empty; that's right!\n#Loneliness #aloneinthecity #fear
fear	tweets	Trust me to lose my wallet and have to call Lifeguard &amp; Swimmers social early as VC @YSJFC #nightmare
fear	tweets	Trust me to lose my wallet and have to call Lifeguard &amp; Swimmers social early as VC @YSJFC
fear	tweets	@mcrichard awe that's adorable
fear	tweets	Last night I had a dream that today was Christmas. I woke up screaming because I wasn't ready. #nightmare
fear	tweets	Last night I had a dream that today was Christmas. I woke up screaming because I wasn't ready.
fear	tweets	Does anyone know, are both Sims in a dual sim phone both locked to the same network! #worry
fear	tweets	Does anyone know, are both Sims in a dual sim phone both locked to the same network!
fear	tweets	Greatest sign of trust is me giving you my laptop or phone without hesitation
fear	tweets	@C1TYofFL1NT This will haunt my dreams. @JoePrich
fear	tweets	I'm a walking ball of stress and anxiety lol
fear	tweets	Happy Birthday to my favorite author, @StephenKing #horror #writer #author
fear	tweets	Happy Birthday to my favorite author, @StephenKing  #writer #author
fear	tweets	@billmaher @realDonaldTrump was right and you two have very similar stances against #radical #islamic #terror. Time to anoint the Orange one
fear	tweets	@salutetroye you look adorable awe
fear	tweets	@simonschuster @StephenKing @BuzzFeed And don't forget a fear of St. Bernards. #Cujo
fear	tweets	Why doesn't anybody I know watch penny dreadful? ☹️️
fear	tweets	@Patsy1207 @markheardusa @theinquisitr Do your fuc*ing job and report the news.Just another bully to go in the basket.Freedom or fear???
fear	tweets	@andreasarahco do you actually heely on campus bc this should scare you
fear	tweets	Don't let worry get you down.  Remember that Moses started out as a basket case.  #lol \nToday, choose #faith over  #Moses
fear	tweets	Don't let worry get you down.  Remember that Moses started out as a basket case.  #lol \nToday, choose #faith over #fear #Moses
fear	tweets	#Debates2016 #AskTrumponeQuestion why do you #bully and # insult #people so much more than any other candidate in history? Not leadership
fear	tweets	#terrorstatepak #pakistan is a #terror state
fear	tweets	@JonnyOwenFilm @ringsiderobbie1 can you remember that train Sunday after Froch v Kessler ? #nightmare
fear	tweets	@JonnyOwenFilm @ringsiderobbie1 can you remember that train Sunday after Froch v Kessler ?
fear	tweets	@crowder_rachel @LillieGregg she's famous now, begged a living of some mugs fame! Work shy freeloader. Deserves it all
fear	tweets	🙄 I just want to start all over again .
fear	tweets	@JaredWyand @ilovetailgating the beak on that woman is almost as shocking as the low IQ of her followers.
fear	tweets	@SkeletonsLock 'Pleased to meet you. You obviously know me,' offers her hand to shake.
fear	tweets	terror attacks in usa pay no mind lol
fear	tweets	“Winners are not afraid of losing. But losers are. Failure is part of the process of success. People who avoid failure also avoid success.'
fear	tweets	@EricNobody @ArmouredSkeptic @YouTube This shit is gonna start a cold war of who can flag who first.
fear	tweets	If you #invest in my new #film I will stop asking you to invest in my new film. #concessions #crime #despair #shortsightedness #celebrities
fear	tweets	If you #invest in my new #film I will stop asking you to invest in my new film. #concessions #crime  #shortsightedness #celebrities
fear	tweets	Being bad at time management is finally starting to come back to haunt me.
fear	tweets	Who's not going to hoco and wants to go to fright fest this Saturday??
fear	tweets	Even after @O2 ref the £5k fraud, they still treat me like dirt. No returned calls or apology #shocking #customerservice @mse @resolvercouk
fear	tweets	The whole idea f a nation revolves around Kashmir &amp; global terrorism: evrn don't care their kids dying of hunger. #NawazFightsForKashmir
fear	tweets	You can make excuses or you can make time. You can't make both. #time #regret #anxiety #LifeCoach
fear	tweets	You can make excuses or you can make time. You can't make both. #time #regret  #LifeCoach
fear	tweets	Ffs 🙈 when things come back to haunt you... cringe bad cringe 🙋🏼👀🔫 👈 what a terrible gun that is
fear	tweets	@theurbanologist the tunnels! I shudder to think of the grimy tweets...
fear	tweets	@MSNBC @fox @cnn @realDonaldTrump @HillaryClinton. Using fear to state his views. Not getting the facts before making a serious statement???
fear	tweets	@noveliciouss OMG, that's such a beautiful quote. #breathless #amwriting
fear	tweets	@noveliciouss OMG, that's such a beautiful quote.  #amwriting
fear	tweets	@curlygirlmimi guess is cause you small and girly. I dunno how this works.. I did frighten though.. She's. A big'un
fear	tweets	#soywax limited edition horror candles going up @scentedscreams! Follow us for all the latest news!!
fear	tweets	#soywax limited edition horror candles going up @scentedscreams! Follow us for all the latest news!! #horror
fear	tweets	@sreeniv51294598 hahaha dear d not worry discuss
fear	tweets	@value4tax @Hopkins_Alison That part of Queensbury is a shocking disgrace. The route from the station to Morrisons is festooned with rubbish
fear	tweets	Idk why but this Time around its so hard that it hurts, I already miss them all so much #silly #family #friends #nervous
fear	tweets	Idk why but this Time around its so hard that it hurts, I already miss them all so much #silly #family #friends
fear	tweets	@YahooFantasy update may have been the worst mistake of my day #horrible
fear	tweets	@YahooFantasy update may have been the worst mistake of my day
fear	tweets	My best friend gets married in three days, I have replaced all my anxiety with an eeiry calm and cat cuddles.
fear	tweets	My favorite insult I get is from straight white men and it's usually 'tall/fat lesbian' 😂 You intimidated bro?
fear	tweets	And im not even going to get into how its discriminatory to several religions which mandate its followers to let their hair dread.
fear	tweets	@CharlieEblacker hate being shy 😩
fear	tweets	Right i may be an #sufc fan and the football maybe shit but marcos rojo for #mufc has had a shocking start he's just dreadful
fear	tweets	Somewhere between  #hope and #despair the day after #meetingmyabuserincourt \n#DVSurvivor
fear	tweets	@kcbbcxo don't get discouraged! it's early on &amp; it can get overwhelming. keep reading &amp; use cue cards 😊 it'll get better!!
fear	tweets	10 page script due Friday for class. Who said I could do this MFA thing? #panic #GradSchoolProblems #someonetelltinafeytohireme
fear	tweets	10 page script due Friday for class. Who said I could do this MFA thing?  #GradSchoolProblems #someonetelltinafeytohireme
fear	tweets	@SkySportsRL i would just get some decent referees #shocking
fear	tweets	@SkySportsRL i would just get some decent referees
fear	tweets	I'm so nervous 😭
fear	tweets	I'm so nervous
fear	tweets	I'm so restless
fear	tweets	@S_Moore24 wow that sounds terrific
fear	tweets	@debscov65 local solutions fine but not 864 providers negotiating with 32 LA's/IJB 's #scare resources
fear	tweets	@JustinTrudeau opened doors to terrorism and he will pay for it. @CP24 @globalnewsto
fear	tweets	@ikhras @benglaze Amal Clooney should try to prosecute  #Bush/ #Blair for #war crimes that turned our World upside down&amp;created #terrorism
fear	tweets	@ikhras @benglaze Amal Clooney should try to prosecute  #Bush/ #Blair for #war crimes that turned our World upside down&amp;created
fear	tweets	hi berniebrocialists of all genders: if I lived in a swingish state I would w/o hesitation vote Clinton &amp; would do so w/o 'supporting' her
fear	tweets	@UNHumanRights @UNDP_Pakistan wat an irony? #Pakistan lecturing the world on curbing #terrorism
fear	tweets	@UNHumanRights @UNDP_Pakistan wat an irony? #Pakistan lecturing the world on curbing
fear	tweets	Everybody's worried about stopping #terrorism. Well, there's a really easy way: stop participating in it. -  Noam Chomsky
fear	tweets	I seriously hope these chances Celtic are missing are going to come back to haunt them with an Alloa sucker punch
fear	tweets	@Simon_Barrett I will watch @BlairWitchMovie when it opens in Mexico in a week. Thank you for making it and don't be discouraged.
fear	tweets	@TheBadgerBoy check out the article on @SaintSkipper5 on @dailyecho #shocking
fear	tweets	@TheBadgerBoy check out the article on @SaintSkipper5 on @dailyecho
fear	tweets	@FoxNews Yeah we're also experiencing terrorist attacks by Islam and #BlackLivesMatter at an alarming rate.
fear	tweets	one ep of despair arc made me happy but and then i'm going back to future arc and i'm upset again.
fear	tweets	Fingers crossed I can finish all my work early enough this Friday in time to catch @Raury at LIB 😦 #nervous #timetogrind
fear	tweets	Fingers crossed I can finish all my work early enough this Friday in time to catch @Raury at LIB 😦  #timetogrind
fear	tweets	@danmericaCNN @aefadul22 HRC has the experience, temperment, knowledge &amp; ability to lead us in this perilous time
fear	tweets	Buying an early entry tickets at @EGX means fuck all, expect a complaint email when I get home #shocking service
fear	tweets	@rockandpop pomte A Muse com panic Station Exitaso
fear	tweets	@CNN bully
fear	tweets	Just Laying Here, Can't Sleep 4 Some Reason
fear	tweets	Just Laying Here, Can't Sleep 4 Some Reason #restless
fear	tweets	#internationaldayofpeace : When white supremacists terrorize everyone of differing cultures online and will continue it offline tomorrow.
fear	tweets	Awe produces gratitude, gratitude instills joy, &amp; the harvest of joy is contentment.' \n\n–@PaulTripp #awe 😭😭😭
fear	tweets	I'm so over having anxiety
fear	tweets	&amp; I'll actually shoot somebody if I have to not just draw down or expose it to somebody to scare them 😮#Charles
fear	tweets	Democracy doesn't work\n #mob #mentality #mass #hysteria  #mongering #oligarchy
fear	tweets	—but he just can't. He feels tired but also restless. So here he now, scrolling his own music player, playing some music through his—
fear	tweets	@Beetrootrabbit it was, work was an awful reality on the Tuesday @verilyberrily @emmmmerla, thanks so much for coming! xx
fear	tweets	@_miasienna ITS ALREADY FUCKING 1 ... Ok well I love having panic attacks in the afternoon
fear	tweets	I know this is going to be one of those nights where it takes an Act of God to fall asleep.  #restless
fear	tweets	@samsteinhp stop the presses, @realDonaldTrump said/proposed something racist. #shocking
fear	tweets	@samsteinhp stop the presses, @realDonaldTrump said/proposed something racist.
fear	tweets	Rooneys fucking untouchable isn't he? Been fucking dreadful again, depay has looked decent(ish)tonight
fear	tweets	@icuminhoesasses Think about it if he need white peoples votes wouldn't just reach out about things that only concern them &amp; leave out rest?
fear	tweets	@jamieyates That's what we strive for, Jamie! Please don't hesitate to reach out if you have any questions along the way. 🙂
fear	tweets	The Pats are awesome. Belichick is awesome ...they just are.
fear	tweets	The Pats are awesome. Belichick is awesome ...they just are. #awestruck
fear	tweets	Rojo is just terrible, how is he in our team 😂😂
fear	tweets	@christyfrink @stephenyeargin @El_Brandino I once hooked them up backward. Not recommended. #smoke #panic
fear	tweets	@christyfrink @stephenyeargin @El_Brandino I once hooked them up backward. Not recommended. #smoke
fear	tweets	@LeafyIsHere will showing off biceps scare you?
fear	tweets	I feel really nervous, or anxious. Idk. My leg keeps shaking. Hmm
fear	tweets	No but that's so cute. Atsu was probably shy about photos before but cherry helped her out uwu
fear	tweets	@torreBe Te gusta American horror story y The walking dead?
fear	tweets	Don't think I'll ever get used to this 6:30 alarm 😩💤
fear	tweets	@GOtvNg CN seems like you only appreciate good reviews. No apologies to my concern years ago.
fear	tweets	Yellow Submarine is under tremendous pressure from Los Blancos. #WaveAfterWave #RMAVIL
fear	tweets	My roommate: it's okay that we can't spell because we have autocorrect. #terrible #firstworldprobs
fear	tweets	My roommate: it's okay that we can't spell because we have autocorrect.  #firstworldprobs
fear	tweets	@scotydoesntkn0 start buying Death Wish Coffee and shake hands with espresso every now and then.
fear	tweets	@DDNewsHindi  #UNGA no talks should be carried out with Pakistan now ... His mouth stinks of #terrorism #UriAttack
fear	tweets	@DDNewsHindi  #UNGA no talks should be carried out with Pakistan now ... His mouth stinks of  #UriAttack
fear	tweets	Last @LGCanada product I buy - I promise! Absolutely #terrible #CustomerService
fear	tweets	Last @LGCanada product I buy - I promise! Absolutely  #CustomerService
fear	tweets	SO many great pics from the show in Tokyo😍 I like all his outfits now except the lace one w those horrible pants....💁
fear	tweets	Angel got me nervous out here 😷
fear	tweets	When your friends want to go out drinking but you know you gonna have to say no because social #anxiety runs your life
fear	tweets	@_Hallospaceboy_ @DailyGrindhouse  I respect when someone can give a second chance to a movie they aren't a fan of. Why #horror is diverse.
fear	tweets	I wish harry would start tweeting people again
fear	tweets	Onus is on #Pak to act against #terror groups which find safe havens and all types of support for cross border terror: #MEA
fear	tweets	@DunsScottus @FaithNGuns @buggazing @Patriot_Musket Yep, Owen Garriott told me it was ghastly. None of his peeps ever had it :)
fear	tweets	“It is not #death, that most people are #afraid of. It is getting to the end of #life only to realize that you never truly #lived.”
fear	tweets	@Sami749263491 yeah whatever, whahibbi are #muslims just a sect, as you know,  #islam is synonymous with #rape and
fear	tweets	@Sami749263491 yeah whatever, whahibbi are #muslims just a sect, as you know,  #islam is synonymous with #rape and #terrorism
fear	tweets	@skyfootball manchester united...still untrusted iam afraid i might loose my bet
fear	tweets	@ccgdavidson I remember being awestruck looking around thinking, 'You could fit the entire population of our town in here ten times over.'
fear	tweets	Any #entrenepuers, #start ups, #SME's out there looking for proactive #accountancy, #tax and #business advice? We can help. Get in touch.
fear	tweets	@westelm tells me my order will ship on Sept 12, arriving by Sept 19. Today is the 22. 😐 #lies #terrible #whereismyfurniture
fear	tweets	@westelm tells me my order will ship on Sept 12, arriving by Sept 19. Today is the 22. 😐 #lies  #whereismyfurniture
fear	tweets	Why does having anxiety drain some much of your energy #anxiety #sotired #needtosleepforhours
fear	tweets	Why does having anxiety drain some much of your energy  #sotired #needtosleepforhours
fear	tweets	i hope this comes back to haunt you, then maybe you would know just how it felt to be like me at my lowest
fear	tweets	Insomniacs can't get sleep cuz they are too guilty about all the horrible shit they do. I'm a complete sociopath n sleep like a baby.
fear	tweets	BibleMotivate: Are you worrying/worried?\n1Peter 5:7\nThrow all your worry on him, because he cares for you.#faith #leadership #worry #mindfu…
fear	tweets	Just got done watching Jeepers Creepers it was epic #horror #horrormoviesarebest #movies #movie #horrorfilm 🎬📽🎬
fear	tweets	@tweetingacct @amandacarpenter @TeamTrump the 'pledge' would have never have to be made if petulant child POStrump didn't threaten to run
fear	tweets	today afghanistan tell us where the terrorism is planned whaaaooo#UNGA
fear	tweets	World wants #peace from #terrorism #WorldPeaceDay #internationaldayofpeace
fear	tweets	World wants #peace from  #WorldPeaceDay #internationaldayofpeace
fear	tweets	Bake off on TV and the Match on my phone, what a nightmare I'm so stressed #GBBO #NTFCVMUFC
fear	tweets	Completely blown away by @EvaNoblezada @alistairbrammer @JonJonBriones and the cast of @MissSaigonUK tonight. #fathomevents #speechless #awe
fear	tweets	Completely blown away by @EvaNoblezada @alistairbrammer @JonJonBriones and the cast of @MissSaigonUK tonight. #fathomevents #speechless
fear	tweets	#Never be #afraid to #start over, it's a #new #chance to #rebuild what you want! 🔨🔩🏢
fear	tweets	I wish you stayed in Da Gump I'll make you panic like the last rapper
fear	tweets	ppl talking about diets and i am feeling #terrible hahaha
fear	tweets	@stephtikkanen oh so true, so true. #shudder
fear	tweets	@stephtikkanen oh so true, so true.
fear	tweets	don't worry mary berry, my banter is as dry as old boots x
fear	tweets	It's about time I start taking my own advice
fear	tweets	@qdoba omg I'm so slow bc my eng is not very well and my hands are shaking uhh help meee I'm like this lil chicken now 🐥#MoreisBetter
fear	tweets	@Takadad2 Hahaha!\rHe is a bully though!\rLike really a bully.\rOnly Sugita tamed the bully in him.
fear	tweets	Look for #contrasts....#behaviour may be a #camouflage....garments a #shell....a #bully may be a #baby inside.....' - Prof Caroline Taylor
fear	tweets	#ADHD &amp; #anxiety are #IRRELEVANT\nAnyone will be #EVICTED if a significant amount of rent HAS NOT BEEN PAID \n#mentalhealth aside\n#CantPay
fear	tweets	i met with an employment specialist this morning &amp; she basically told me its unlikely i'll get a job because i clearly have too much anxiety
fear	tweets	McDavid breakaway. Lundqvist with a tremendous save.
fear	tweets	Seeing huge or really full  backpacks on people fills me with anxiety
fear	tweets	In other news. My legs hurt. #running #5kin26mins  #flatfeet
fear	tweets	In other news. My legs hurt. #running #5kin26mins #dreadful #flatfeet
fear	tweets	@01Starblazer 9 -9 vs Atlanta this yr, 2 - 11 vs Rockies and DBacks this yr. That's a combined 11 - 20 vs 3 atrocious teams in NL
fear	tweets	@01Starblazer 9 -9 vs Atlanta this yr, 2 - 11 vs Rockies and DBacks this yr. That's a combined 11 - 20 vs 3 atrocious teams in NL #awful
fear	tweets	I'm shaking now.
fear	tweets	me: are you guys dating yet #trans #nervous #blowjobs #TFB dating in mack north ohio Bewdley
fear	tweets	She: Why are you listening to The Eurythmics?\nMe: It's a Polish Gothic Metal band.\nShe: Why do I even ask... (exits room, shaking head)
fear	tweets	and claimed that all of the same things could scare us\nbut we were tough because of ancestry
fear	tweets	I feel like I am drowning. #depression #anxiety #falure #worthless
fear	tweets	I get so nervous even thinking about talking to ****** I wanna die
fear	tweets	I lost my blinders .... #panic
fear	tweets	I feel like I am drowning. #depression  #falure #worthless
fear	tweets	This is the scariest American Horror Story out of all of them... I'm gonna have to watch in the daytime. #frightened
fear	tweets	@mgcsartwork I nearly started crying and having a full on panic attack after tatinof bc of the crowds so I feel him
fear	tweets	I have to finally tell my therapist about my sexuality ... last frontier ... not sure I can do it in the AM #fear #SingleGirlProblems
fear	tweets	@laura221b I don't think I've ever moved so fast in a panic in all my life 😂 Gave me such a fright 😓
fear	tweets	My bus was in a car crash... I'm still shaking a bit... This week was an absolute horror and this was the icing on the cake... #terrible
fear	tweets	My bus was in a car crash... I'm still shaking a bit... This week was an absolute horror and this was the icing on the cake...
fear	tweets	procrasting is fun until im an hour away from the time its due and i still havent finished so i have a panic attack
fear	tweets	My #anxiety is rising tonight and I'm not sure why. Sometimes I wonder if I'm a magnet for any free-floating anxiety in the universe.
fear	tweets	Im not a #nervouswreck, Im a #nervous #pileup. #GoingCrazy #HelpMe #Insane #Antisocial
fear	tweets	#panic Panic attack from fear of starting new medication
fear	tweets	Job interview in the afternoon #nervous #ek
fear	tweets	I am beyond mad that I lost track of a brown spider in my brown carpet. Where did you go? 🕷 will be sneaking up on me
fear	tweets	anxiety level- 100
fear	tweets	Wah just woke up frm a fucking nightmare
fear	tweets	I get so much PUSSY\nP - panic attacks \nU - uncontrollable anxiety \nS - suicidal fantasies \nS - sadness \nY - yearning for death
fear	tweets	Cosplaying properly for the first time on Saturday! Pretty nervous..
fear	tweets	@Markgatiss I'm surrounded by those Trump voters. You're right, it is fucking terrifying. #redstate #despair
fear	tweets	Ignored broken tooth for so long, now have abscess. Need dentist but #fear makes it hard for me to go..45 and still can't go to dentist
fear	tweets	@RogueCoder250 We are in so much trouble!! I don't think the Rev will see the funny side of our project. #nervous
fear	tweets	im crying katherine is the only one whos like talking to me during my anxiety attack im gonna faint
fear	tweets	Ever been really lonely and your phone keeps blowing up, but you just can’t pick it up and respond to people? #anxiety #recluse  #issues
fear	tweets	Super shitting it about this tattoo #nervous
fear	tweets	Breaking out in hives for the first time since college finals. #anxiety sucks
fear	tweets	@tchop__StL @YouTube \nI get sick to my stomach everytime I see this video &amp; for the helicopter crew to make such comments is revolting.
fear	tweets	I am beyond mad that I lost track of a brown spider in my brown carpet. Where did you go? 🕷 will be sneaking up on me #frightened
fear	tweets	6. 5 minutes to perform and I'm #nervous I wish these noises would stop #handicapped #annoyed
fear	tweets	I hate when people say 'I need to talk to you or we need to talk.' My anxiety immediately goes up...
fear	tweets	He replied to my comments 4 times now i'm shaking omg
fear	tweets	Being stuck in the roof of your house provides amazing view but sheer terror of falling down, kinda like life
fear	tweets	Just want Saturday to be over but then again I want to do good #LSAT #nervous
fear	tweets	Im not a #nervouswreck, Im a  #pileup. #GoingCrazy #HelpMe #Insane #Antisocial
fear	tweets	I was literally shaking getting the EKG done lol 🙄
fear	tweets	@AHSFX thanks Ryan &amp; Brad for scary the shit out of us in the first episode. Don't think my heart will make it through the s6 #horrific
fear	tweets	@officialShaky 'Operation Echoes' is gathering momentum ... #tense #nervous #feelsick #excited
fear	tweets	#WeirdWednesday OKAY! That jump-scared the #Poop out of me right there. Bad dog, BAD! Total code-brown in my favorite pants. #Damnit
fear	tweets	@RosieBalls I fear for the future of mankind
fear	tweets	First day of college feeling nervous
fear	tweets	i might have #hysteria ,i don't kno if it's just #anxiety or both,..need a diagnosis cuz somethin' is messed up,need ert bu i nvr come out
fear	tweets	@danisnotonfire you made me cry and shake to the point where my parents had to calm me down and give me calming tablets...
fear	tweets	Gonna get some acupuncture today for all my damn anxiety 🙃🤕
fear	tweets	#AnthonyWeiner #DISTRACTION #what is really going on? #selection #election #Syria #terrorism #race #riots #GasCrisis2016 #NoDAPL #rape
fear	tweets	@p4pictures it would be great but what if the card crashes 😱. It's happened to me twice #nightmare
fear	tweets	@corruptmelon now im feeling the #worry
fear	tweets	That feeling you get when you know the information but scared you might do bad on a test #collegelife #nervous 😥😥
fear	tweets	i had a hard time falling a sleep and woke up several times because i was afraid of bugs crawling on me and i ended up waking up with a bite
fear	tweets	White Americans are worried about Arab terrorists. Black Americans are fearful of a terrorist in a Police uniform on a daily basis.
fear	tweets	Today was horrible and it was only half a day
fear	tweets	#ObamaLegacy - weekly #riots and #terror attacks, &gt;400k dead #Syrians, #Jews fleeing #persecution in Europe, #Christian #genocide in ME.....
fear	tweets	bad news fam, life is still hard and awful #depression #anxiety #atleastIhaveBuffy
fear	tweets	@RoseTintMyWorId fucking hell mate absolute nightmare 😓
fear	tweets	@Markgatiss I'm surrounded by those Trump voters. You're right, it is fucking terrifying. #redstate
fear	tweets	Life long fear of havin a shit and a spider crawls up ya bum
fear	tweets	What a shamefull, unequal, dangerous and worrying world we live in nowadays!  #terrifying #Charlotte #terrorism #shitworldforourkids
fear	tweets	@AHSFX thanks Ryan &amp; Brad for scary the shit out of us in the first episode. Don't think my heart will make it through the s6
fear	tweets	I start work tmrw yall, i'm nervous lol
fear	tweets	I Don't know what make #Pakistan fear more their #terrorist or their #terrorism  #TerrorStatePak
fear	tweets	@Montel_Williams If this ban goes through, it will harm so many people, disabled veterans, people who have #chronicpain, #anxiety #iamkratom
fear	tweets	Wish I could convince the rest of my children to go to their fucking preschool and elementary schools with fear of gun violence.
fear	tweets	I had a panic attack when I couldn't find @katrinalaw on #Twitter Turns out my Twitter is a jerk. I can still see her. #NyssaAlghul #panic
fear	tweets	Now this is getting out of hand. I'm freaked out by this death...and I'm God!! #mommaGrendel #intimidation
fear	tweets	Saga: When all of your devices and teles fail just in time for bake off #panic #gbbo
fear	tweets	Feeling like I've had the worst night of sleep ever - not great before the #London to #Brighton #cycle ride for @DMTFYP 🚴100k ?
fear	tweets	Do you think humans have the sense for recognizing impending doom? #anxiety
fear	tweets	I have to finally tell my therapist about my sexuality ... last frontier ... not sure I can do it in the AM  #SingleGirlProblems
fear	tweets	im literally shaking bc im nervous and bc its fucking cold oh how i love life
fear	tweets	I feel horrible. I have accounting today but physically and mentally am not okay 😪
fear	tweets	@BigBossPeltonen \nLikewise #death #cutting #despair
fear	tweets	I am about to be a coward and I feel terrible. But I can't even face this 😭
fear	tweets	#WeirdWednesday OKAY! That jump-scared the #Poop out of me right there. Bad dog, BAD! Total code-brown in my favorite pants. #Damnit #horror
fear	tweets	@BBCPolitics @BBCNews I'd rather leave my child with @BorisJohnson #shudder
fear	tweets	@OutdoorLoverz is this a bridge if I have to drive on such I will stop breathing Yooo I can't I'm to afraid
fear	tweets	My roommate talks and laughs in her sleep. It never fails to scare the shit out of me. 🙅🏽😳
fear	tweets	I had a dream that I dropped my iPhone 7 and it broke T_T #cry #iPhone7
fear	tweets	I just deleted my save file trying to load it up. Now I have to start. All. Over. Again. I am going to freaking kill someone. Pray for me.
fear	tweets	@RossKemp Omg that is just horrific. Something needs to be done. 😢
fear	tweets	I'm getting so nervous for my first anatomy exam 😩
fear	tweets	@camilluddington the fact that YOURE nervous makes me want to crawl in a hole
fear	tweets	mm nothing like a good old fashioned panic induced cry on your living room floor
fear	tweets	r U scared to present in front of the class? severe anxiety... whats That r u sad sometimes?? go get ur depression checked out IMEDIATELY!!!
fear	tweets	Now this is getting out of hand. I'm freaked out by this death...and I'm God!! #mommaGrendel
fear	tweets	In #Bangladesh war, #US almost bombed us had #Russia not been there. What strategy for #China on #Pakistan? Time ripe to crush #terror camps
fear	tweets	I have another test tonight #nervous
fear	tweets	@gdimelow @TheDailyShow @NivenJ1 @jordanklepper These interviews scare the crap out of me. I never imagined so many dumb, dumb Americans.
fear	tweets	Can't believe how nervous I feel tonight...who feels the same #mufc
fear	tweets	@MrsCassonC @15_jordyn WAS THERE A CLOWN IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD?  #creepy #EnoughIsEnough
fear	tweets	@MrsCassonC @15_jordyn WAS THERE A CLOWN IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD? #nightmare #creepy #EnoughIsEnough
fear	tweets	Bloody hell Pam, calm yourself down. But could have sworn something black &amp; hairy just ran across the carpet, #perilsoflivingalone
fear	tweets	She was so posh it frightened me. I'm still scared.
fear	tweets	In wake of fresh #terror threat and sounding of alert in #Mumbai, praying for safety &amp; security of everybody in the city #Maharashtra #news
fear	tweets	Woke by #nightmare @ 3AM, couldn't sleep any more, so took a #UseAllTheHotWaterShower. Now I have time to read.
fear	tweets	 ughh I just want all this to be over.. it's like a nightmare! can we all just get along?
fear	tweets	I seem to alternate between 'sleep-full' and sleepless nights. Tonight is a sleepless one. 😕 #insomnia #anxiety #notfair
fear	tweets	Jimmy Carr makes me want to cry and cry *shiver*
fear	tweets	in my dream....They were trying to steal my kidney!!! #nightmare #blackmarket #whydidiwatchthat
fear	tweets	Jimmy Carr makes me want to cry and cry *shiver* #awful
fear	tweets	Being forced into a fake hug by someone who didn’t flinch to get litigious with you in the past - #awful 😖👺🙅
fear	tweets	And it pisses me off more they killed people who surrendered. Hands up and all. If hands visible you shouldn't be fearing for your life
fear	tweets	Andrew's hands start shaking and he says 'I hope I die.. like right now'
fear	tweets	I dread this drive every Wednesday 😩
fear	tweets	A country that gave safe house to #Osama Bin #Laden is dangerous if not contained. #Pakistan is a #terror heaven, declare so @BanKimoon_amdg
fear	tweets	Maybe @SamHeughan can send me good luck on my job interview tomorrow. #nervous 😳
fear	tweets	@alivitali that's what I'm afraid of!
fear	tweets	So not pumped for this interview #nervous
fear	tweets	An @amityaffliction kind of drive home from work today #nightmare #dailyfeels
fear	tweets	I'm scared that my coworkers are going to submit me to one of those 'wardrobe makeover' shows. #fear #fashion
fear	tweets	When you wake up, scroll through social media, and another father was taken from his child #nightmare #everyday #KeithLamontScott
fear	tweets	hi my names anxiety and i have shaun
fear	tweets	Background. Suffered a bit at times of #stress. Always a bit #shy. About 8 years ago (aged 30) I was made redundant. That's when it started
fear	tweets	@YahooCare data stolen in 2014 and only now do you tell us .
fear	tweets	I dread math 😴
fear	tweets	@SusannahSpot I could pop round #nightmare
fear	tweets	@excalibater I'm very shy irl and lately I feel like everyone's doing their own thing and I don't fit in anywhere and I feel lonely :(
fear	tweets	How do you ever stop being #afraid of someone that you live with
fear	tweets	@DSWT I despair at this madness! It's beyond #shocking it's cold blooded murder!  How long will #SouthAfrica stand by &amp;watch #WorldRhinoDay
fear	tweets	in my dream....They were trying to steal my kidney!!!  #blackmarket #whydidiwatchthat
fear	tweets	So she goes first. She gets her book signed &amp; I can barely take their picture cuz I'm shaking 😭😭😭😭😭
fear	tweets	Just had to reverse half way up the woods to collect the dog n I've never even reverse parked in my life 🙄 #nightmare
fear	tweets	#AnthonyWeiner #DISTRACTION #what is really going on? #selection #election #Syria  #race #riots #GasCrisis2016 #NoDAPL #rape
fear	tweets	Well this is flipping great! Flipping standstill on the freeway! #anxiety #stepofftheledge #youvegottobekiddingme
fear	tweets	When you arrive at the office the day before your first ever festival and the Internet is down #panic
fear	tweets	@WunderlistHelp are you guys still down? When can we go up? #panic
fear	tweets	The focal points of war lie in #terrorism and the #UN needs to address #violentextremism
fear	tweets	Grim and despair feeling-I look at self and my family. Hubby fought 20+ years for this country. I've worked 20+ years for this govt--&gt;
fear	tweets	Put my passport in a safe back after getting back from Australia 🌏. Only problem is now I can't remember where the safe is!! #panic 🛂
fear	tweets	@nigglydz lydiaaaa, we were the only ones that were supposed to know that you make me nervous 😶
fear	tweets	@GuardianAus @guardian because there is a realistic probability that a clown might be their next president. #clown #uspol #nightmare
fear	tweets	What the fuck is he even doing ? He should be off that's fucking horrific !
fear	tweets	@AldiToHarrods I'm still too nervous to try it. I need to man up and give it ago.
fear	tweets	@rsdeepsea @BreitbartNews If 3 people are in a country of 300 million - you are going to RUIN the whole country over 3 people? #fear
fear	tweets	@prw190 #zionist = #terror \nImagine this kid was a #Palestinian or #Muslim\nZionists stealing #innocence of childhood from #Jewish #children
fear	tweets	I don't know how people can binge watch horror films ...ALONE!😓😰
fear	tweets	Haven't gotten one hour of sleep... Today is going to be a fun day 😐 #restless
fear	tweets	This is the scariest American Horror Story out of all of them... I'm gonna have to watch in the daytime.
fear	tweets	#India right of reply at #UNGA - #Pakistan preaching of human rights is by a country which is itself the global epicentre of #terrorism
fear	tweets	my boyfriend once forcibly stopped all of my anxiety coping methods at once (holding me, forcing my hands down that kinda stuff) and I --
fear	tweets	I thought the nausea and headaches had passed but lol I feel awful today
fear	tweets	Job interview in the afternoon  #ek
fear	tweets	Tomorrow is the day I cut and dye my hair! 😳 #nervous #excited
fear	tweets	A Lysol can got stuck in spray position and we're all slowly suffocating from the trash can that smells like a Febreeze factory. #panic
fear	tweets	# ISIS REFERENCES SCRUBBED?  Federal complaint against suspect in NYC, NJ bombings appears to omit terror names in bloody journ...  #news
fear	tweets	@Budget  car rental you have made realize why I always use @nationalcares!!!!  What a #nightmare!!  #disgusted
fear	tweets	searching for what pro and academic writers have to say about #writing #anxiety and #writersblock
fear	tweets	What an actual nightmare
fear	tweets	Can we go back 2 weeks and start again ?? This is seriously dreadful
fear	tweets	I absolutely love having an anxiety attack halfway through a family meal
fear	tweets	Pakistan is the biggest victim of terrorism - Nawaz Sharif \nReally? It should have been biggest creator of terrorism. #UNGA
fear	tweets	After #terror our leaders say, 'Don't jump to conclusions,' but [in matters of #racial unrest], they are silent. Why is that? @greggutfeld
fear	tweets	im tired of people telling me the worry about me when in fact they probably never gave a fuck about me
fear	tweets	#Aleppo city is burning. The head of #terrorism #Assad regime &amp; #Russia are bombarding the city right now with #whitephosphrus #bombs !
fear	tweets	Bloody hell Pam, calm yourself down. But could have sworn something black &amp; hairy just ran across the carpet, #perilsoflivingalone #nervous
fear	tweets	im like 'this is better' in the moment cuz i panic and then later its so obviously not better. at every opportunity i choose to make it seem
fear	tweets	Just heard what happen at grandad hometown last night such a terrible news 💔, hope everyone okay 😢
fear	tweets	@ExaltedCaptain reality in the form of endless tragedies. She didn't know how to react at first, being too frightened to repeat another--
fear	tweets	It's 5:55am. I'm hungry but there is no food. #panic
fear	tweets	I have a job interview with @BarclaysUK in Loughborough next month #nervous!!!
fear	tweets	@AllyTheRipper @ProoF @SpaitoGaming every horror movie that frightened me as a child i.e. 'IT', Halloween movies all of them, nightmare on..
fear	tweets	@JackAndAHat butter up the walls, nightmare
fear	tweets	both afraid of all the same things
fear	tweets	onus is on Pakistan' : MEAIndia after #Uri #terror attack
fear	tweets	Don't wanna really go out but I can't say no. Deffo have a fear of missing out
fear	tweets	Biggest #THREAT 2 #GLOBAL #STABILITY? #climatechange #food #water #security #terrorism #russia #war #trump #clinton #geopolitics #korea $vwo
fear	tweets	@p4pictures it would be great but what if the card crashes 😱. It's happened to me twice
fear	tweets	My doctor is giving me flower extract to relieve anxiety and reduce panic attacks :')
fear	tweets	I get soooo nervous when an actually attractive guy tries to talk to me in person. Like 9/10 I turn him down just from habit 😭
fear	tweets	@megynkelly We should be ignoring these rioters like the current administration ignores #terrorism. This will obviously make it stop.
fear	tweets	I'm okay, dont worry. I wish i'd been a better kid. I'm trying to slow down. I'm sorry for letting you down.
fear	tweets	@TimesNow indian army crossed loc into pok to bust terror camp on 20th Sept night?
fear	tweets	@KennyCoble @Rosie these horrific situations will only get worse if trump is elected. vote Hillary.
fear	tweets	@BBCNews 😝 scared of their own horror story they wrote, afraid of the #terror they spread, will #europe start WW3 in 2017 anniversary of WW1
fear	tweets	my husband lost £800 when he booked an apartment through @Airbnb that didn't exist... @AirbnbHelp didn't care #nightmare #airbnbnightmare
fear	tweets	@Tik115 Issue with that is, will the effort involved get back the amount I put into it? That's what I'm fearful of.
fear	tweets	Avoiding #fears only makes them scarier. Whatever your #fear, if you face it, it should start to fade. #courage
fear	tweets	My anxiety is playing around HELP!!!!!
fear	tweets	Got to be up in 4 hours to go back to work #cantsleep #excited #nervous
fear	tweets	my husband lost £800 when he booked an apartment through @Airbnb that didn't exist... @AirbnbHelp didn't care  #airbnbnightmare
fear	tweets	Tomorrow is going to be a challenge, I have to talk at a freshers fair to STRANGERS 😁and pick up my new flat keys #anxiety
fear	tweets	I'm afraid she's the goat you libeling people? #afraid #goat #libeling
fear	tweets	@twlldun @bbcquestiontime @JacobReesMogg @leicesterliz @normanlamb @CarolineLucas @JuliaHB1 Oh god, not Brewer again. The horror, the horror
fear	tweets	&gt;.&lt; too much clutter in my brain with recent little changes that I haven't yet processed... #dying #panic #IveBeenBusierWhyAmIOverwhelmed :(
fear	tweets	The more videos @PanicAtTheDisco  post, the more i am convinced i might should not have done that #fear #Brendonati
fear	tweets	Someone wake me when @Therealkiss make 2016 remix of 'Why'❗️b/w #TerrenceCrutcher #Election2016 #colinkapernick #terrorism #riots this 2much
fear	tweets	@dc_mma @ChampionsFight think shes afraid to fight Holly. One can only imagine what goes through her head when she thinks of Cyborg
fear	tweets	I had a dream that I dropped my iPhone 7 and it broke T_T #cry #iPhone7 #nightmare
fear	tweets	@coopah Worst than going to the morgue to do a positive ID. #horrible Reuters
fear	tweets	Scott Dann injured aka my worst nightmare
fear	tweets	bad news fam, life is still hard and awful #depression  #atleastIhaveBuffy
fear	tweets	induction day tomorrow for pizza express #nervous
fear	tweets	Dates in the glove box' is pure panic excuse #GBBO
fear	tweets	Swear to God don't get a smart meter from your power company, 8 months of daft bills, 6 visits from British Gas #nightmare #stressed
fear	tweets	I had a panic attack when I couldn't find @katrinalaw on #Twitter Turns out my Twitter is a jerk. I can still see her. #NyssaAlghul
fear	tweets	how maybe it was with you and your parents..that I would understand you and your fear of indifference from your own mom and dad..
fear	tweets	My interview went well today, I can't wait to find out what happens. #nervous #excited #interview #jobinterview
fear	tweets	I'm used to bears, I'm used to coyotes, I love the idea of wolves. But this is hard. I don't want to be fearful of the meadow or the pines.
fear	tweets	@missmeliss465 @WellWeds @siggyflicker @whispernghope @mcrichard awe I feel so bad being naive ou is the worst
fear	tweets	Being alone is better than being lonely. Know what is worse than being lonely? Being empty; that's right!\n #Loneliness #aloneinthecity
fear	tweets	I can never find the exact #emoji that I'm after at the exact moment that I need it #panic
fear	tweets	@katlute which one....the one where u threaten violence? Or the phedophiliac u support?  Or the constitution violations he proposes?
fear	tweets	still shaking though 🙃
fear	tweets	Watching It Follows.  This is a super freaky movie.  #horror #scary
fear	tweets	Watching Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension. I'm not sure how I feel about it yet. #horror
fear	tweets	Even death is unreliable. Instead of zero it may be some ghastly hallucination, such as the square root of minus one.  Samuel Beckett
fear	tweets	@Burnt_Out_Darth @theaterofscifi thanks. #nightmare
fear	tweets	#TerrorStatePak we r confirm that #navazsharif is post graduate distinction student of university of #terrorism. He can't spare himself.
fear	tweets	@ANI_news #Pakistan should stop cross border #terrorism if they really need solution for #KashmirIssue. @narendramodi sir, #India should act
fear	tweets	3:45am and off to the hospital! Elouise's waters have gone! #panic #Labour #LittleSister #superexcited
fear	tweets	This is the first time I've written anything on this series in over two years, so I'm checking back in for one last nightmare.
fear	tweets	I hate having ideas but being too afraid to share them 😔
fear	tweets	i'd let jiho step on my throat but he'd probs be afraid he'd hurt me
fear	tweets	@Montel_Williams If this ban goes through, it will harm so many people, disabled veterans, people who have #chronicpain,  #iamkratom
fear	tweets	Nawaz Sharif's UN should start #सत्य_बोध_यात्रा as after all his #UNGA speech has awaken the world about their role in sponsoring #terrorism
fear	tweets	Idk if it's hella hot in here or I'm nervous
fear	tweets	@JaySekulow what can we do 2 get @realDonaldTrump 2 reveal his taxes? That is the immediate danger. But u will not answer me. #afraid
fear	tweets	I can't imagine keeping malice with my brothers!! I shudder when I see siblings estranged and all
fear	tweets	Today's alarm shows how unprepared professors and students are when it comes to emergency protocols. We don't know where to go @CalStateLA
fear	tweets	@MaryamNSharif I think just becz u have so much terror in pak nd urself being  a leader u forgot d difference btw a leader nd terrorist !
fear	tweets	And here we go again 😓 #restless
fear	tweets	There's always that one song which makes you turn of the radio, as you'd rather sit in silence 😡 #awful
fear	tweets	Do you think humans have the sense for recognizing impending doom?
fear	tweets	@GeneralBakshi Only Indian seems to be afraid of War is @sardesairajdeep n like India is for WAR! WAR! WAR! we cry war. #PakistanMustPay
fear	tweets	@officialShaky 'Operation Echoes' is gathering momentum ... #tense  #feelsick #excited
fear	tweets	Retweeted Dr. Rand Paul (@RandPaul):\n\nStop fueling a Middle East arms race and worsening an already horrific refugee crisis in Yemen.
fear	tweets	The more I watch this documentary on @Channel4 the more I think @Airbnb is more a #nightmare than dream #dreamornightmare
fear	tweets	World is facing #terrorism. Where #Terrorist's school exist? Who are terrorist's teacher &amp; father. Which is terrorist's motherland?
fear	tweets	@CBSThisMorning @newsgirl123456 again, profiling DOESN'T discourage (September 20, 2016; 18:41 EDT) #terror #TRUMP #FAIL
fear	tweets	We ashamed of being an ally to you. Pakistan sacrificed almost 50000 civilians by siding you in war on #terror @JudgeTedPoe
fear	tweets	#terror test ................
fear	tweets	@MrMalky @kwr66 How awful! Switched off!
fear	tweets	bout to read this article 'Moving the Conversation Forward: Homosexuality &amp; Christianity' from someone in the foursquare church #nervous
fear	tweets	The Zika #Hoax Files: DEET is part of a binary chemical weapon targeting your brain: #Toxin #fear #neurological #USCitizens #Insect #mammal
fear	tweets	Just had a massive argument with my alarm today... I didn't want to get up. I don't know how we're going to fix this by tomorrow morning 😕
fear	tweets	@Delta stuck on runway after being diverted to Fargo. Continuously told just 10 more mins for the past 4 hours. No food/water offered #awful
fear	tweets	@jk_rowling never thought an angry oompa loompa would be my Boggart, but there you have it. #boggart #PresidentTrump #nightmare
fear	tweets	#beyond naming &amp; shaming ; lies a vast space b/w #sanctions &amp; #terror state...v *wait til Others #impose it...&amp; do not hv COURAGE #ourselves
fear	tweets	@MEAIndia: Virtually every statement by other countries at #UN has referred to #terror as main threat to peace, #Pak still in denial.
fear	tweets	wow if i need to start over on SIF im prob gonna just die
fear	tweets	When your body says FUCK YOU BITCH, You ain't sleeping\n #sleep #cantsleep #drained
fear	tweets	I want to slide into the dms but im too fucking shy #shy
fear	tweets	@BartholomewD It's -terrible-! We're going to the local fish/chip place in Kirribilli #terrible
fear	tweets	At #UNGA Pakistan clearly shows the face of cowardliness and blatant lies! Its time for #India to act upon terror.
fear	tweets	@ChickOfBeauty No!  By Y'all I mean rioting, fire starting, business burning, looting ASSHOLES!  That create  #BlackLivesmatter #terrorism
fear	tweets	#India is sponsoring terrorism in #Balochistan. #KulbhushanYadav an Indian spy agent was arrested in Balochistan by Pakistani forces.
fear	tweets	Tired of people pretending Islam isn't one of the most misogynistic religions, it's no coincidence Muslim countries are terrible for women.
fear	tweets	Some questions you get on Twitter make you want to despair. We've been so battered. We complain but aren't convinced things could be better.
fear	tweets	@dfkm1970 @tomddumba the struggle is real. Whoa! I worry for the younger generation 💔
fear	tweets	@TeaPartyOrg Hes right when the Civil war starts it will be wall to wall terrorism and i don't fancy the Muzzy's chances
fear	tweets	Look at this #massiah of #youngleader\n#Pakistan #massiah of #terrorism
fear	tweets	@AmyMek this is so absurd I could laugh right now (if I also didn't feel like crying for the future of our country).  #wakeupcall
fear	tweets	@AmyMek this is so absurd I could laugh right now (if I also didn't feel like crying for the future of our country). #despair #wakeupcall
fear	tweets	@politico If they say the words radical Islamic terrorist, will that somehow make the terror groups drop their weapons?
fear	tweets	this Mac update has me some kind of apprehensive.
fear	tweets	a panic attack AND CALL YOURSELF A REAL FAN makes me so mad like i dont even have the words to explain. this is why some people give no +
fear	tweets	Your boy' is having a nightmare @VivaLaSergio
fear	tweets	It feels like there are no houses out there for us. With the most basic requirements I have, there are literally no options. #discouraged
fear	tweets	@SadiqKhan #terrorism shouldn't be a way of life in the united etates and wasn't until #islam brought it here! #IslamExposed #islambacon
fear	tweets	Now #India is #afraid of #bad #terrorism.
fear	tweets	@RJAH_NHS @ChrisHudson76 @mbrandreth #course day # potential Leadership #excited #nervous # proud
fear	tweets	ugh!! this is the worst!! i didn't read at all this whole first month of school and i have a unit test on friday!!! awe man!!
fear	tweets	Man city's kit is dreadful!
fear	tweets	jimmy_dore: RaisingTheBoss we've already lost our country and our government to oligarchs, but their fear tactics still work it appears.
fear	tweets	@ChickOfBeauty No!  By Y'all I mean rioting, fire starting, business burning, looting ASSHOLES!  That create #BlackLivesmatter
fear	tweets	Set n alarm '@Innocentia_T: I wanna nap but I'm scared I'll wake up tomorrow .'
fear	tweets	@Megannn_walsh12 @itsshelleeey never said that,Just not fair how Yous think it's completely okay to bully someone
fear	tweets	Just feel awkward that I'm being timid to everyone.
fear	tweets	Rooney ! Oh dear, oh dear ! Fucking dreadful 🙈⚽️⚽️
fear	tweets	@rsdeepsea @BreitbartNews If 3 people are in a country of 300 million - you are going to RUIN the whole country over 3 people?
fear	tweets	@DaniQays @AJENews ohh.. so here comes sense from terror supporting stone pelting vandalizing ppl who gather b4 protests to announce ...
fear	tweets	@JaySekulow what can we do 2 get @realDonaldTrump 2 reveal his taxes? That is the immediate danger. But u will not answer me.
fear	tweets	Unruly kids at 8am in the morning #nothanks ripping the flower beds up by the roots while their parents watch #shocking
fear	tweets	#ntfc mourinho is worried,  bringing Ibra  and Rushford on.  #panic
fear	tweets	@latenightdaryun pfft, as if anyone undergoing the constant ongoing horror of sapient consciousness has any trust in themself anyway
fear	tweets	Librarians scare me
fear	tweets	@SherriEShepherd because #whitepeople are #afraid of large #blackmen?
fear	tweets	@iSmashFizzle that's me all the time. I carry ginger candy, peppermint oil and sea-bands at all times #anxiety
fear	tweets	@mikebairdMP @AndrewConstance @nswtaxi how many sex cases u need before u guys learn UBER is shocking to the consumer unregulated
fear	tweets	@ashish_geol @getPakistanTV @HamidMirGEO .. Have you give thought to Khalistaan? \nNo concern of you Baluchistan !! Kashmir is an Issue.
fear	tweets	Democracy doesn't work\n#mob #mentality #mass #hysteria #fear #mongering #oligarchy
fear	tweets	I want to slide into the dms but im too fucking shy
fear	tweets	Jesus wept! Another RNS from #rusty @metaltigerplc quote 'Price sensitive news, Price Sensitive news' etc etc The #Ramping here is #shocking
fear	tweets	A Lysol can got stuck in spray position and we're all slowly suffocating from the trash can that smells like a Febreeze factory.
fear	tweets	@Miami4Trump Yeah, but bad part is the #terrorism #terror Muslims won't be the ones leaving #ObamaLegacy #nationalsecurity #disaster #Obama
fear	tweets	We're all in D. T. (Discipleship training or detox) for something. #messy  #cutoff #choosefreedom #CryOut16
fear	tweets	@Sami_3499 Oh noooo!  #nomorehammocks #nightmare ;)
fear	tweets	So not pumped for this interview
fear	tweets	Rojo is shocking.......absolutely shocking !!!
fear	tweets	#NawazSharif confesses that #Pakistan  supports #terror at #unga\n#BurhanWani
fear	tweets	@PanicAtTheDisco hey, y'all announced it like immediately after I asked. Nice. Thanks y'all #panic
fear	tweets	When your body says FUCK YOU BITCH, You ain't sleeping\n#sleep #cantsleep #drained #restless
fear	tweets	@wwcummings @USATODAY this individual is clearly trying 2 #intimidate this #LEO I see an issue here. STOP CAUSING ISSUES by pushing limits!!
fear	tweets	@Lrihendry I'm not sure we like this comparison.  USA should emulate #Israel's methods of protecting civilians against #terror attacks
fear	tweets	Swear to God don't get a smart meter from your power company, 8 months of daft bills, 6 visits from British Gas  #stressed
fear	tweets	@williamcontrol just preordered The Pale EP... Would have paid for the phone call... But I would have freaked out and not said anything #shy
fear	tweets	We in our own country are so divided in our approach so how could we fight #terrorism and #pakistani terrorism #MartyrsNotBeggars
fear	tweets	@GuardianAus @Paul_Karp Maybe 49% support no #Muslim immigration cos they perceive the risk of #Islamist ideology &amp; #terrorism as too high?
fear	tweets	Sounds like Donald Trump has spent today just making extra, extra sure he'd get those frightened white, conservative, racist votes.
fear	tweets	@JennyPGR I worry about typos in any email to Simon, draft attached or not...
fear	tweets	@NinjaWorrier @ali_zimmer @m_pattison How long ago was that? (I shudder to think.)
fear	tweets	@BigBossPeltonen \nLikewise #death #cutting
fear	tweets	@MikeGrunwald Anything is better than a Trump ramble. He is awful. Truly truly awful.
fear	tweets	horrid having a car n no liscence
fear	tweets	Today has dragged on #restless
fear	tweets	@twinfjournal @TwinningLife111 @KCtwinflame @TFUnion1111 @Para_Priestess @cupidpoetry I went thru the same thing yesterday #panic better2day
fear	tweets	@CBCNews Canada should be a driving force of democracy freedom rights - instead we help #dictator #misogyny #Sharia #Islam  #polygamy
fear	tweets	we shiver in the pause between words \nabandonment still fresh upon the tips of our tongues
fear	tweets	How I Murdered Your Mother #SpookyTv #horror
fear	tweets	Just had to reverse half way up the woods to collect the dog n I've never even reverse parked in my life 🙄
fear	tweets	Girls with hairy arms scare me
fear	tweets	Didn't concede yet but having a nightmare at the back #MUFC
fear	tweets	me, myself, and I \n #horror movie alone again tonight maybe a #zombie would eat me and finish my life game already - i want #gameover
fear	tweets	I feel ghastly and I'm really hoping it's just a post-birthday slump. Back to full research mode tomorrow either way.
fear	tweets	In addition to fiction, wish me luck on my research paper this semester. 15-20 pages, oh boy. #daunting
fear	tweets	@Fly_Norwegian quite simply the #worst #airline #worstairline I've ever used! #shocking #appauling #dire #dismal #beyondajoke #useless
fear	tweets	Accrington Stanley? Who are they? Exactly. Things looking dire for West Ham despite the win. What's changed since March? #bbcfootball
fear	tweets	@RogueCoder250 We are in so much trouble!! I don't think the Rev will see the funny side of our project.
fear	tweets	mmmm i'm kinda sad i hope i can shake this before school
fear	tweets	Late night #thoughts. Feeling #restless.
fear	tweets	However the agent was inauthentic, my sister still loves me, &amp; I'm still alive. So I guess it wasn't that bad. #socialanxiety #anxiety
fear	tweets	@carlybigelow13 first you take the room now you wanna beat me up #bully
fear	tweets	@datboyJuniorE lool soon as man start loosing weight.  Its panic
fear	tweets	@jndtech horrible.
fear	tweets	“The #greatest fear #dogs know is the #fear that you will not come back when you go out the #door #without them.”   \n  ―#Stanley #Coren
fear	tweets	Fosu Mensah is having a complete nightmare! It's the reason all Northamptons attacks come from the left.
fear	tweets	@Ms_Asia_Pacific @jgsuing @PilosopoTanya @HuffingtonPost @HuffPostPol as a fellow UP grad, i shiver at the shallowness of his arguments
fear	tweets	How can America be so openly embracing racism.
fear	tweets	Overtime... #TeamNA #WCH2016 #nervous
fear	tweets	From harboring Osama bin Laden to its relationship with Haqqani network, there is enough evidence to prove Pakistan is sponsoring terrorism
fear	tweets	Feeling like I've had the worst night of sleep ever - not great before the #London to #Brighton #cycle ride for @DMTFYP 🚴100k #apprehension?
fear	tweets	We're all in D. T. (Discipleship training or detox) for something. #messy #fearful #cutoff #choosefreedom #CryOut16
fear	tweets	Recording some more #FNAF and had to FaceTime my mum to let her know I was okay after I let out a high pitched scream 😂 #horror #suchagirl
fear	tweets	@bobcesca_go @sesmithesq \nDidn't Florida 2000 teach you anything? I live here in Palm Beach County and lived through that nightmare.
fear	tweets	@markhberman2003 @LanceZierlein @790blessing entire team from coaches on down played and coached scared from jumpstreet. #intimidated
fear	tweets	How can America be so openly embracing racism. #dismayed
fear	tweets	Donnie trumpeter is a vapid and vacant vile viper slithering through the landscape and playing on the gears of the fearful and afraid.
fear	tweets	@hoystweet Are the pre-purchased tickets being sent soon? Coming to the Saturday evening show... tickets are a no show! #panic #hoys 🐴🦄
fear	tweets	Super shitting it about this tattoo
fear	tweets	when people hit on me i try to shake them off by talking about how i hide from communism
fear	tweets	How am I supposed to intimidate the freshman if half of them are taller than I am??
fear	tweets	How the fuck do we #live our lives admiring everybody that ever just did something to #win it, then be #afraid to even try to do it yourself
fear	tweets	@GuardianAus @guardian because there is a realistic probability that a clown might be their next president. #clown #uspol
fear	tweets	Onus is on #Pak to act against #terror groups which find all types of support for cross border terror: #MEA
fear	tweets	Round 2 #panic #pcola
fear	tweets	2day's most used term is, #terrorism, with many addresses and forms. On my #opinion, the only form of terrorism in this world is, injustice!
fear	tweets	Malins with another surging run forward almost sets McCreadie up at the far post.  Decent game for the neutral, nervous for @Lewes_cfc fans
fear	tweets	@LBC - I can't read this article but headline indicates a horror story. Lock sick chavs up and throw away the key.
fear	tweets	The fact that we have a presidential candidate that speaks the way Trump does is alarming. I thought higher of my peers. #FDT16
fear	tweets	@BraveHermione_ + and gives it to hear] 'Please.. I can tell you anything if you want to listen. maybe you're dont afraid anymore of me +
fear	tweets	#NewYork: Several #Baloch &amp; Indian activists hold demonstrations outside @UN headquarters demanding Pak to stop exporting #terror into India
fear	tweets	However the agent was inauthentic, my sister still loves me, &amp; I'm still alive. So I guess it wasn't that bad. #socialanxiety
fear	tweets	Sickness bug! #awful
fear	tweets	@gowoonist i got that but you were alarming
fear	tweets	not only was that the worst @EGX that's I've attended but worth one of the worst cons I've been to in the last 5 years #terrible
fear	tweets	Home is where the heart lies ! Love my little island but my birth city just ain't acting right &amp; im not feeling too good about it
fear	tweets	#America finding #gratitude amidst the sadness and frustration about race, #fear, anger and #racism, i remain hopeful _ i'm an earth fixer'
fear	tweets	David's #anxiety is going to send him home. As someone who also suffers, learning to look normal is an essential coping skill. #survivor
fear	tweets	@jjskeffington @foodbelfast I dread to think!
fear	tweets	I'm such a shy girl🙄
fear	tweets	Watching Paranormal Activity: The Ghost Dimension. I'm not sure how I feel about it yet.
fear	tweets	@CP24 And I hope when the police met him at the subway that they took him straight to jail 😕
fear	tweets	onus is on Pakistan' : @MEAIndia after #Uri #terror attack
fear	tweets	#internationaldayofpeace Want peace,prepare for war. Destroy terror states like Pakistan
fear	tweets	They're both awful in their own ways, but just saying. The way he treated Aniston alone makes him a nightmare male narcissist to be avoided.
fear	tweets	Georgia Tech's Secondary is as soft as a marshmallow.  #horrible
fear	tweets	#Muslims are the principle victims of #terrorism. More Muslims are dying at the hands of these #terrorists than anyone else. #YounusAlGohar
fear	tweets	Angelino's been horrific
fear	tweets	@BaileyDemented @hsmitty3 ill kill u if u bully her 😤😤😤
fear	tweets	Rollover car crash on warren st, traffic is horrid #Boston
fear	tweets	@NRA @HillaryClinton  She never said anything about taking away guns but I would now bc of your stupid scare tactics for gun sales.Sickening
fear	tweets	Ugh I want to punch a wall every time I have to use @windows 10. Literally the worst product ever made #windows10  #killme
fear	tweets	Looks like #India is finally taking #Pakistan n it's #terrorism to task.#uriattacks.
fear	tweets	It feels like there are no houses out there for us. With the most basic requirements I have, there are literally no options.
fear	tweets	Saga: When all of your devices and teles fail just in time for bake off  #gbbo
fear	tweets	Home is where the heart lies ! Love my little island but my birth city just ain't acting right &amp; im not feeling too good about it #restless
fear	tweets	If purging was real, Kenya would be the country where the elite purge from choppers while the low-class cower under their beds for 12 hours
fear	tweets	Appropriate that first secretary at permanent mission is tasked with demolition of #terror state #Pakistan - Like 'renunciation of lies' bit
fear	tweets	I really want to go for fright night but I really don't 😁
fear	tweets	@NaziaMemon01 yeah a terror packed terror supported speech..
fear	tweets	@peacexxanna your nightmare
fear	tweets	PASTOR - 15 FEET away from shooting victim during protest says he is skeptical of official story.  #CharlotteProtest #CharlotteRiot
fear	tweets	When you arrive at the office the day before your first ever festival and the Internet is down
fear	tweets	I seem to alternate between 'sleep-full' and sleepless nights. Tonight is a sleepless one. 😕 #insomnia  #notfair
fear	tweets	can only blame Jose ere why would you give Rojo another start after Sunday , fucking disaster waiting to happen &amp; it did shocking header !
fear	tweets	@komaebun He just has that way of thinking, he wants absolute hope born from absolute despair.
fear	tweets	Still waiting to see if my @london2012track will make an appearance next week - two months today it was ordered #shocking #badservice
fear	tweets	My roommate turns the sink off with her foot to avoid germs and a guy says 'YOUR roommate is feet girl?! I'm so sorry' plz help #nightmare
fear	tweets	Tomorrow is going to be a challenge, I have to talk at a freshers fair to STRANGERS 😁and pick up my new flat keys
fear	tweets	a vote for #killary is like sticking a knife in a toaster  #MakeAmericaGreatAgain
fear	tweets	That old lady is cray cray #scared #BellaIsSoCute #awe #Empire
fear	tweets	People have the right to #protest, Not to #loot &amp; #riot &amp; #terrorize #Charlotte\n#Violence &amp; #Anarchy is unacceptable\n@CNN
fear	tweets	jesus ok an alarming percentage of my teachers ths year dont have a  s ingle thoughtful bone in their bodies . its gonna b an interesting yr
fear	tweets	When my 4yo is gone I blast gothcore music. She has #anxiety &amp; I can't listen 2 it around her bcuz it's 'too spooky'. *sigh* #momlife
fear	tweets	@Aliki111 Haters!!! You are low in self worth. Self righteous in your delusions. You cower at the thought of change. Change is inevitable.
fear	tweets	@NFYFC @Wilkster_ hmm, don't know many yf  who are short on confidence! Wish I'd been one, #shy
fear	tweets	.\nWe express our deep concern about the suspension of   \n@MohammedSomaa01  please reactivate it. he never violated T.roles @Support
fear	tweets	@ajjaffe @MattMurph24 @nickspencer I was under the impression that stop and frisk was a concern to many in NYC. Didn't deBlasio rein it in?
fear	tweets	That's fucking horrific defending from Schalke
fear	tweets	While we focus on issue of #IPCA @IHFOKids Indulges in #intimidation @BringRoshniHome @ChildrensIssues @MEAIndia @MinistryWCD #StopCruelty
fear	tweets	PASTOR - 15 FEET away from shooting victim during protest says he is skeptical of official story. #shocking #CharlotteProtest #CharlotteRiot
fear	tweets	@CP24 And I hope when the police met him at the subway that they took him straight to jail 😕 #awful
fear	tweets	i've seen the elder watching me during my community hours and i honestly don't have an idea about what my assignment will be. #apprehensive
fear	tweets	@Taoist_Skeptic @jackaberlin @DrJillStein @politicususa Doubt U have anything to be afraid of as Trump has been vilifying minorities &amp; women
fear	tweets	Wishing i was rich so i didnt have to get up this morning #poor #sleepy  #sad #needsmoresleep
fear	tweets	@Orrible_Ives I didn't say anything bad about the situation great mate, can't believe some were. Makes me despair of humanity
fear	tweets	Shoutout to @VZWSupport for ruining my iPhone 7 order!! #horrible
fear	tweets	Next month we'll be running overcoming #lowmood, overcoming #worry and improving #wellbeing courses in #Louth. Self refer on 0303 123 4000
fear	tweets	So they #threaten to kill #kapernick for KNEELING. I say every athlete just stop playing until social justice and equality comes forth.
fear	tweets	@tylerhower Covering Milo might make sense—not much, even at that—but celebrating him as puckish is cooperation in something ghastly.
fear	tweets	@jade0208 unfortunately the diet is still on, so they will have to wait till Friday I'm afraid.
fear	tweets	@Theresa_Talbot @fleurrbie Haha...sorry about the dreadful puns... I need to get out more....I've been cooped up lately...
fear	tweets	@rsiereilly my heart did the flutter
fear	tweets	@ExpressScripts u shd b embrrssd. u jack up my bp meds twice and it will still take 3-5 days? Not express at all. #expressscripts #horrible
fear	tweets	In dire need of a worship session to just let go of everything
fear	tweets	A concern of mine is that big name FA(like Malik) will tell other big potential FA's to steer clear of this franchise till Gus is gone.
fear	tweets	@KarenL109 replace the carpet!! #shocking !!!!
fear	tweets	Everyday gay panic is STUNNING: I drew 1 guy's att'n to it when he blocked up a toilet stall's cracks w/paper towels. TOTAL INCOMPREHENSION.
fear	tweets	He: u r beautiful\nShe:i hve a bf\n\nSame as \n\n#India :u guys r #terrorist\n#Pak:we have #nuclear #missiles.\n\n#IndianArmy #terror
fear	tweets	@LmRyle @tomcolicchio @realDonaldTrump @HillaryClinton @ajjaffe I understand your concerns but look at her foundation contributions #worry
fear	tweets	@HillaryClinton #Hypocritical considering the #MiLLiONS of dollars you and @billclinton took from #horrible people and spent on yourselves.
fear	tweets	@LonelyGoomba UK cops have an issue fearing intervention. Hence situations like Rotherham. So of course it'll be dwarfed by US cops.
fear	tweets	Now #India is #afraid of #bad .
fear	tweets	okay i AHVE to start mob psycho 100 today. if i dont im going to fight myself
fear	tweets	@zavvi @zavvihelp only offering 6 moth warranty #ps4pro #shocking #truth #ripoff
fear	tweets	Americans as a whole are, for the most part, feeling borderline despair at the very least. Looking at a situation out of control.
fear	tweets	can't believe Mint fest is two days away and i hate my outfit 😩😩🙈
fear	tweets	@myaeggs I can't get a better look at her bc I'm too shy to make eye contact ;-;
fear	tweets	I Don't know what make #Pakistan fear more their #terrorist or their  #TerrorStatePak
fear	tweets	@stevie7t Why does talksport sound like it's being broadcasted from someone's basement #terrible #quality #amateurs
fear	tweets	I'm afraid she's the goat you libeling people?  #goat #libeling
fear	tweets	My study skills are terrible 😒
fear	tweets	@NeyaphemMaster @_James_Kellar_ @RavenMetamorph @MagnetoBroHood @jedi_paige Thomas' nervousness at being the group's focus is evident, 'I&gt;
fear	tweets	Is it terrorism to intimidate a populace? What case held 'coercion by people in uniform is per se intimidation'?
fear	tweets	If the future doesn't fill you with existential dread are you even a real person
fear	tweets	I've been in such a bad mood this week, and work has been horrific, so I decided to start a scrapbook of my summer vacation
fear	tweets	@YahooCare data stolen in 2014 and only now do you tell us #shocking.
fear	tweets	@MasterTomTheDom  I hate winter, I dread it's arrival.
fear	tweets	#NawazSharif says lets end #terror. Sure, let #IndianArmedForces target the bases without #Pakistan interference #Karma?
fear	tweets	PM #SheikhHasina in @UN speech terms #terrorism as global challenge and urges world leaders to work together to unroot it from everywhere.
fear	tweets	@vibaby @imEB y'all had crackheads in the islands? I don't know why I find that so interesting and shocking
fear	tweets	@ExpressScripts u shd b embrrssd. u jack up my bp meds twice and it will still take 3-5 days? Not express at all. #expressscripts
fear	tweets	When you wake up, scroll through social media, and another father was taken from his child  #everyday #KeithLamontScott
fear	tweets	can't believe Mint fest is two days away and i hate my outfit 😩😩🙈 #nightmare
fear	tweets	@NativeApprops @SBShear @HuffingtonPost Shew. That was #awful
fear	tweets	Forgot to plug the phone in overnight #nightmare
fear	tweets	@GMModular @goldmedalindia  horrible experience with a company like this #goldmedal #horrible sales person #wrong commitments#wrongproduct
fear	tweets	New play through tonight! Pretty much a blind run. Only played the game once and maybe got 2 levels it. #Rage #horror
fear	tweets	Bitch worry about me more than I worry about myself 🙄😩
fear	tweets	@AlamRahman today which can impact the signal, I'm afraid :-( Our engineers are working to have this resolved by this evening and you'll
fear	tweets	Approaching #terrorism from an anti-racism POV is futile, instead promote prejudice towards racism. That way we are all on the battlefield.
fear	tweets	Ugh I want to punch a wall every time I have to use @windows 10. Literally the worst product ever made #windows10 #awful #killme
fear	tweets	@BrumSciComm in a danish.  What horror, what depths. #gbbo
fear	tweets	When someone tells you they're going to 'tear you apart' and all they have to say is 'why are you so tall?' #shocking
fear	tweets	Men cannot even handle the suspicion of a horn farless 😩
fear	tweets	@AOLUK @JamesHayr @TheDrum Anychance of addressing the communication I sent to you yesterday??? I still haven't had any contact #shocking
fear	tweets	@Morning_Joe @JoeNBC @mikebarnicle Trump says the refugee situation 'is not just about terrorism it's about quality of life.' Take note.
fear	tweets	If I was friends with me I'd hate me SO MUCH with the amount I bully them
fear	tweets	Absolutely shocking. The decline of Rooney is a little embarrassing really!
fear	tweets	Excited and nervous for Tuesday
fear	tweets	@HillaryClinton @realDonaldTrump @BonfireLana #bully #Bullshit #fullofshit please take out the #garbage
fear	tweets	@Relaqss I know she did horrible shit, but it wouldn't make anything better in the end, but your choice
fear	tweets	Thiza!!! What happens now when you tell him you're pregnant via home test &amp; nurse later tells you it's a false alarm &amp; BaE is too excited🙊
fear	tweets	@realDonaldTrump She blamed Benghazi on a YouTube video. She blamed emails on #ColinPowell. Now she blames #terrorism on you. #weakHillary
fear	tweets	so I picked up my phone!!!' #shocking 😳
fear	tweets	@markhberman2003 @LanceZierlein @790blessing entire team from coaches on down played and coached scared from jumpstreet.
fear	tweets	Haven't gotten one hour of sleep... Today is going to be a fun day 😐
fear	tweets	Bayern Munich pitch is horrific
fear	tweets	@IPES_44 Mourinho is horrid
fear	tweets	@ChowdharyMahima Appreciate ur 'half truth.' Don't let ur good judgement swayed in the realm of propaganda. State doesn't sponsor terrorism.
fear	tweets	@StephenKing\n\nStephen King never once spoke out about how the Left crushes #FreeSpeech in publishing world.\n\n#Trump #horror #scifi #ccot #p2
fear	tweets	@VectoneMobileUK The worst customer service and lack of professionalism from this service provider! #phoneprovider #badbusiness #terrible
fear	tweets	#COINCIDENCE??? When you turn on the TV, etc.&amp; listen &amp; watch, the objective is to #CaptureYourMind with #fear &amp; #depression. #FindGODNow!!!
fear	tweets	@Mc_Cabe_Conor This is it. The complete illiteracy around the role, nature and extent of British agents is shocking.
fear	tweets	I saved him after ordering him to risk his life. I didn't panic but stayed calm and rescued him.
fear	tweets	You don't know what to expect by Brendon's video lmao LA devotee video got me shook #panic
fear	tweets	On a side note if you are self medicating ? That's not helping that is burying the anxiety that WILL manifest in another way. Heart disease?
fear	tweets	In addition to fiction, wish me luck on my research paper this semester. 15-20 pages, oh boy.
fear	tweets	@JogglingDroid @BrancoCarmine @Otto_English yeah, #UK was quite the #bully
fear	tweets	#Trump is #afraid of the big, bad #Hillary. #election #PresidentialDebate #PresidentialElection2016 #orangehitler #skip #hide #coward #fear
fear	tweets	#BB18 Michelle crying  again #shocking #bitter He's  just not that into you 😢#TeamNicole
fear	tweets	@eugenelaverty @WorldSBK all the best Moto GP is loosing a very talented rider #shocking
fear	tweets	People’s deepest passions often scare them too much to admit, even to themselves.
fear	tweets	a vote for #killary is like sticking a knife in a toaster #shocking #MakeAmericaGreatAgain
fear	tweets	@CNN Wait, didn't she get a case of the ass when Donald Trump called it terrorism BEFORE all the facts were in?  I guess it's ok if she does
fear	tweets	@siomo @NEWSTALK1010 20 says he gets reelected.....  #be #afraid
fear	tweets	@davidhiggerson Can understand fear factor but why support a company that wants to reduce your own to status of a needy satellite..
fear	tweets	Man Utd are shambles that was horrific 😭😭😭
fear	tweets	False alarm, she's not coming out today 😞
fear	tweets	3years today marks the anniversary of that horrid Westgate Attack in Nairobi. My heart out to all those of us who lost our family &amp; friends🕯
fear	tweets	Damnnit! Gonna be 1400 pts shy on Chiefs Rewards of getting a post game photo.
fear	tweets	Most Americans think the media is nothing but Government propaganda BS. #lies #control #BS #RiggedSystem  #garbage #oreillyfactor
fear	tweets	@BritishBakeOff Val's 'soggy bottom' face will haunt me. Stay strong V-dog!
fear	tweets	dread pitt
fear	tweets	@tbergg1 mine are good rn, gonna be horrid after next week
fear	tweets	you come running back to me saying how much you miss me then cower away when we acc try a friendship 👍🏼
fear	tweets	@mcdermo11 @rogerc32 u gave Laura so much constructive criticism she blocked u 'Lazy Give Up Now No Hope Retire' same with Heather #bully
fear	tweets	When my life became such a concern to irrelevant ass people I'll never know
fear	tweets	When a guy comes on the train that smells like a mixture of a damp dog, old sweat and sewage works!!!!#gross #horrid #getoffthetrain #smelly
fear	tweets	God we need a new goal keeper! They’re both horrific.
fear	tweets	Thought I left that part of life behind me\nIt's back to haunt every girl that loves me
fear	tweets	I hate that if I don't start the conversation, there won't be one.
fear	tweets	Focusing primarily on the person you’re talking to rather than yourself and the impression you’re making lessens social anxiety.
fear	tweets	We can't stop racism overnight. Nor gun violence. Nor terrorism. But we CAN literally stop Trump overnight. So, like, let's? #ImWithHer
fear	tweets	#Trump ’s ‘Make America Great Again’ plan is exactly like the first 15 minutes of the #movie #ChildrenOfMen.\n\n#cages #terrorism #refugees
fear	tweets	@ChrisChristie You have no Police credentials-You were a litigator. Nothing more-No Experience. #Sad #TrumpPuppet #Felon  #jersey4sale
fear	tweets	@FJHobson @Beaker126 @Biastai how would you suggest we profile to stop right wing terror
fear	tweets	@realDonaldTrump @KellyannePolls New campaign slogan idea...'I know you are but what am I?' #bully #Trump2016 #yourefired #deflect
fear	tweets	@TenPercent @emmajtracey @MetroUK not at all surprised unf, getting partially sighted Mum &amp; pushchair on trains a nightmare #ignorantpublic
fear	tweets	@EurekaForbes U got to b kidding me. Anu from your firm responded  when I sent the contact details. #terrible #customerexperience
fear	tweets	i've been rooting for him since the beginning #anxiety #BB18
fear	tweets	i've seen the elder watching me during my community hours and i honestly don't have an idea about what my assignment will be.
fear	tweets	@Greener105th so you are astounded that I respect blacks to vote like any other human? u talk so down towards them. What bigotry on display!
fear	tweets	What a horrible track lakeside is 😳😳😴😴
fear	tweets	@AnneMarieIAm Heard #alarm 1. time in Germany today #youFM, TG finally .. and far far too late. Germany always late w UK artists!!😡😠
fear	tweets	Have to say that third City kit is fucking awful. Someone at Nike wants shooting.
fear	tweets	@USAneedsTRUMP @HillaryClinton @realDonaldTrump awe!!! #cnn so bias and doesn't care about people only money
fear	tweets	#hillaryclinton and their followers are #nervous of a #BernieSanders #millennials saying yes to a #woman #POTUS  #JillStein  not #warmonger
fear	tweets	@obyezeks \nWe can't forget d past.But while we apprehend and punish d culprits of the past,are we going to allow d present to slip away?
fear	tweets	Hope was an instinct only the reasoning human mind could kill. An animal never knew despair.
fear	tweets	Val is the type of woman you would dread bringing a donation for the bake sale #GBBO
fear	tweets	@CBCNews Canada should be a driving force of democracy freedom rights - instead we help #dictator #misogyny #Sharia #Islam #terror #polygamy
fear	tweets	@saltmage I find it less daunting if I know one person at least!
fear	tweets	@williamcontrol just preordered The Pale EP... Would have paid for the phone call... But I would have freaked out and not said anything
fear	tweets	@Budget  car rental you have made realize why I always use @nationalcares!!!!  What a !! #disgusted
fear	tweets	@Delta stuck on runway after being diverted to Fargo. Continuously told just 10 more mins for the past 4 hours. No food/water offered
fear	tweets	Caballero's passing remains absolutely dreadful I see!
fear	tweets	Why is it when you nap during the day you are so comfortable but sleeping at night you'll never be as comfortable #nightmare
fear	tweets	Maybe I'm too cynical for my own good, but I'm afraid, this is the only way to understand Nigeria.
fear	tweets	@goofoffartiste Ah, the Grand Old Paradox that is fearing the encroachment of the state but loving unconditionally its paid enforcers
fear	tweets	Part of debunking #panic is the idea that either a physical symptom, negative thought, or a behavior begins the vicious cycle. #CBTWORKS
fear	tweets	@jk_rowling never thought an angry oompa loompa would be my Boggart, but there you have it. #boggart #PresidentTrump
fear	tweets	a #monster is only a #monster if you view him through #fear
fear	tweets	@Zak_Atif two congressional hearings in USA stopped financial aid to Pak and asked it to prove that it is doing enough to stop terrorism 1n
fear	tweets	I was so shy freshman year this guy introduced himself to me by asking if I spoke any English
fear	tweets	My roommate turns the sink off with her foot to avoid germs and a guy says 'YOUR roommate is feet girl?! I'm so sorry' plz help
fear	tweets	Still salty about that fire alarm at 2am this morning.
fear	tweets	#Terrorism can be destroyed easily if #wholeworld came together great strength..they could destroy this #fear from #humanity..
fear	tweets	I'm scared that my coworkers are going to submit me to one of those 'wardrobe makeover' shows.  #fashion
fear	tweets	#Trump is #afraid of the big, bad #Hillary. #election #PresidentialDebate #PresidentialElection2016 #orangehitler #skip #hide #coward
fear	tweets	Although this war will be under the guise of combating terrorism it will in fact be a war against poverty, ignorance and just stupidity.
fear	tweets	Who's afraid of the clowns???\ncomment down there....
fear	tweets	Ronaldo has been shocking. He's tried to do skill twice and he's nearly fallen over both times
fear	tweets	We express our deep concern about the suspension of   @MohammedSomaa01  please reactivate it. he never violated T.roles @Support
fear	tweets	That last minute was like watching a horror show #GBBO 😥
fear	tweets	That old lady is cray cray #scared #BellaIsSoCute  #Empire
fear	tweets	Most Americans think the media is nothing but Government propaganda BS. #lies #control #BS #RiggedSystem #distrust #garbage #oreillyfactor
fear	tweets	It were during the past's mistakes- similar to terror was pretty remarkable.
fear	tweets	Late night #thoughts. Feeling .
fear	tweets	@hotpatooties more like quickie divorce #awful
fear	tweets	Jk I'm not a loner just really shy 😅
fear	tweets	i wanna passion and fear
fear	tweets	@WTFISaHashtag1 @MuslimIQ The problem is that right wing extremist terror groups aren't given coverage, press not interested
fear	tweets	If Monday had a face I would punch it #monday #horrible #face #punch #fight #joke #like #firstworldproblems #need #coffee #asap #follow
fear	tweets	Especially true if there is an impulsive, thin-skinned bully who likes to silence critics &amp; opponents as president. #voxconversations
fear	tweets	Recently changed to @firstdirect and its the worst service I've ever encountered nearly require DNA to access anything. #awful 😩😩😩
fear	tweets	@TELUSsupport any tips on why our wifi is terrible the past week? Slow or dropping out continuously - NW Calgary 😕
fear	tweets	Sickness bug!
fear	tweets	sure, ohio state is terrible, ohio is awful, etc, etc\n\nthese feelings began with the toldeo war \n\nso, maybe don't campaign there?
fear	tweets	I hate that a black lady is painting herself white on the internet for laughs and likes...  #BadForm #DidntLaugh
fear	tweets	#ntfc mourinho is worried,  bringing Ibra  and Rushford on.
fear	tweets	3 #tmobile #stores, #original #note7 #customer and zero #results... What's going on guys? #terrible #customerservice #2hour #waittime
fear	tweets	Going to get myself a copy of @StephenKing's CUJO for an upcoming project that I can't talk about just yet. #horror #amwriting
fear	tweets	@GSchwartz_ it wasn't a joke . #bully
fear	tweets	If you get called #shy this means you are #considered.Turn those #negatives to #positives Quote #MarnieMcCormack from @jpmorgan #womenintech
fear	tweets	3 #tmobile #stores, #original #note7 #customer and zero #results... What's going on guys?  #customerservice #2hour #waittime
fear	tweets	@1NatalieMaines Can you imagine being the person who has to spray tan him? #shudder
fear	tweets	think they re dating guys #nervous #bodybuilding #with #Follow4Follow megaphone xxx number Nierstein
fear	tweets	Well this is flipping great! Flipping standstill on the freeway!  #stepofftheledge #youvegottobekiddingme
fear	tweets	When the sadness leaves you broken in your bed, I will hold you in the depths of your despair, and it's all in the name of love 🎶
fear	tweets	@_jamiebraidwood haha, horrific is all that needs to be said. Glad I'm away to Spain on Sat so missing game 🍹🍕🍺☉☉
fear	tweets	@Shahid3011 don't tweet shit like this! It'll come back and haunt you like your other ones 😭😂
fear	tweets	omg i just heard my dads alarm go off have i really been up all this time
fear	tweets	@BlizzHeroes I feel horrible dealing with 'players' in HotS. News on what you're doing about it? Getting stuck with uncooperative people!
fear	tweets	I hate that a black lady is painting herself white on the internet for laughs and likes... #terrible #BadForm #DidntLaugh
fear	tweets	@ksmitely @CitizenMeh I feel strongly that we need to work together to right this dreadful wrong.
fear	tweets	Missing the 500th test match today , not able to witness it like watching it in India #shy #indvsnz #500thTest @BCCI
fear	tweets	Anyone else find @Microsoft 'anniversary windows 10 update 1607' a Complete #nightmare
fear	tweets	#WTF @NYSCHereToHelp @NYSC allows #gym #bully #atmosphere! #jumpship #nasty #atmosphere #unprofessional
fear	tweets	That goes the #alarm
fear	tweets	#TerribleDebateQuestions Madame Secretary, isn't it true that Russia is behind all terrorism?
fear	tweets	Penny dreadful 3 temporada
fear	tweets	@drunkejt almost all of my mutuals intimidated me at some point or still do
fear	tweets	It is more shameful to distrust our friends than to be deceived by them
fear	tweets	@ChrisChristie You have no Police credentials-You were a litigator. Nothing more-No Experience.#Sad #TrumpPuppet #Felon #bully #jersey4sale
fear	tweets	@bumbleb33tuna door and cleared his throat, trying to dispel any nervousness he had left.
fear	tweets	Termination rate is at 22.22% I gotta make some things shake
fear	tweets	#India right of reply at #UNGA - #Pakistan preaching of human rights is by a country which is itself the global epicentre of
fear	tweets	LMAO this person must hate me so bad to talk shit behind an anonymous account #awe /:
fear	tweets	The only thing scary about a 1-armed man trying to scare someone is the fact that he feels his 1 arm is only good for tryin to scare someone
fear	tweets	Farting in a hot are car when your windows don't roll down is terrible. #gag #BresAdvice
fear	tweets	these confident bitches should scare you the most
fear	tweets	I always thought I was too empathetic but it's becoming clear that the majority of you guys are plain insensitive to an alarming degree
fear	tweets	@Rocks_n_Ropes Can't believe how rude your cashier was today when I was returning an item!  Your customer service is slacking.
fear	tweets	And here we go again 😓
fear	tweets	#GADOT please put a left turn signal at Williams and Ivan Allen Jr Blvd. This is absolutely ridiculous #ATLtraffic #horrible
fear	tweets	@BoudicaRides @realkingrobbo Isn't that exactly what they should do? What took so long? He is more #afraid of #ClintonMafia than #Congress
fear	tweets	@eileen_davidson on RHOBH, you just do not want to assume an affair while you were married so you criticize @LisaVanderpump! #awful
fear	tweets	The Zika #Hoax Files: DEET is part of a binary chemical weapon targeting your brain: #Toxin  #neurological #USCitizens #Insect #mammal
fear	tweets	Start the convo...don't shy away..mental illness abounds in society including our workplace...be informed... #tsdoffsite
fear	tweets	#Everything you've ever wanted awaits you on the other side of #fear . #IfIWasTheOppositeSex #AskAMan
fear	tweets	Anytime @perezed gets near a mic, someone needs to smack him w a bat. @BBTN #awful #marblesinmouth
fear	tweets	Research has determined 70% of #laughter is actually #anxiety.
fear	tweets	3:45am and off to the hospital! Elouise's waters have gone!  #Labour #LittleSister #superexcited
fear	tweets	@Fly_Norwegian quite simply the #worst #airline #worstairline I've ever used!  #appauling  #dismal #beyondajoke #useless
fear	tweets	Obama admin rejects Texas plan to have refugees vetted for terrorism so Texas pulls of of fed refugee resettlement program. Aiding #terror.
fear	tweets	you make my heart shake, bend and break.'
fear	tweets	@GaryLineker yet you and all the other English pundits are afraid to criticise him
fear	tweets	Wishing i was rich so i didnt have to get up this morning #poor #sleepy #restless #sad #needsmoresleep
fear	tweets	@LakersTakeover it ain't that serious. #HOUvsNE #awful #igotbetterthingstodotonightthandie
fear	tweets	@Joey7Barton I remember Joey slagging England player's off bringing out books after crap tournaments..same same..crap player #bully
fear	tweets	@ScottiePass shock horror handicap dodger is at the top 😂 close on the agg cup good , but think pressure will get to mark🤔
fear	tweets	@bdp514am We are a tired and restless community. We are human and tired of asking for change only to be ignored.
fear	tweets	@eileen_davidson on RHOBH, you just do not want to assume an affair while you were married so you criticize @LisaVanderpump!
fear	tweets	@kevinrouth Now that's what I call a gameface! #gameface  #intimidate
fear	tweets	@RealMichaelKay Annoys me to about the Ortiz tribute too, how would the Oriole fans and organization feel if Yanks did that to them? #awful
fear	tweets	India wants to #shake #hands with # pakistan ..... but as usual pakistan #cheat with every #indian \n\n..........shameless pakistan
fear	tweets	One more step in long work #visa process is over. Relief. Onto next step. #expat #restless
fear	tweets	Recording some more #FNAF and had to FaceTime my mum to let her know I was okay after I let out a high pitched scream 😂  #suchagirl
fear	tweets	Obama admin rejects Texas plan to have refugees vetted for terrorism so Texas pulls of of fed refugee resettlement program. Aiding .
fear	tweets	An @amityaffliction kind of drive home from work today  #dailyfeels
fear	tweets	@David_Stepp Any other election, fine vote 3rd party as useless as it is but not this one. I hesitate to say it'd be selfish but...
fear	tweets	@bryony_gordon Sat waiting for bus today enveloped in a strawberry scented damp and revolting cloud of vape. I moved away, disgusting, urghh
fear	tweets	How can you blame the manager watching these players play? It's abysmal. Our team are dreadful. If Jose can't save us. No-one can.  #mufc
fear	tweets	broken policy' #blasio &lt;&gt; #trump #giuliani 'broken windows' all part of 'pecking order' #bully politics #america RESIST #motto
fear	tweets	petrify  me in the fossil type of way
fear	tweets	Texans played horrible.  Bad play calling, bad protection of the ball, bad coaching, bad defense, bad overall performance. #Texans #horrible
fear	tweets	@troyesivan I'm eating sushi, I'm shaking for you
fear	tweets	@Taniel @LOLGOP That'll be gosh darn terrific if they only check the brown people. Shucks, let's make a law to say only brown people.
fear	tweets	@JonnyDunn93 and Gerrard was awful then
fear	tweets	@DiscordianKitty He has charisma? I guess, if you like people who looked coked out and speak as if they're a school bully?
fear	tweets	@caeruleusV @Atheist_Penguin @misogynaut I threaten you because I can pussy
fear	tweets	@DSDambuster just finally started #homefronttherevolution, what did you all do the story and gameplay??? #terrible #wasteofmoney
fear	tweets	@BrandedByCas I was like that when I started college. It was horrific but it probably will get better. Don't give up yet
fear	tweets	Jesus wept! Another RNS from #rusty @metaltigerplc quote 'Price sensitive news, Price Sensitive news' etc etc The #Ramping here is
fear	tweets	@ynnsanity Maybe that's why, we're asked to study hard and get a job that we like. That way it wouldn't be that dreadful.
fear	tweets	Just #terrible from the cats there. Wow. #AFLCatsSwans
fear	tweets	@VectoneMobileUK The worst customer service and lack of professionalism from this service provider! #phoneprovider #badbusiness
fear	tweets	@JTregManc it's fair to say he's been a bit timid compared to what I've been known to see from him
fear	tweets	@BBs_Coffee somebody needs tell staff at Reading cappuccino is supposed to have a thick layer of foam and coffee should be hot #awful again
fear	tweets	@andrewspoooner wouldn't cross the street to piss on its server if it was on dire
fear	tweets	When I walk in darkness of despondency, Sc.verses I've memorized shine a light in my heart. Ex: Lam 3:22-25
fear	tweets	someone come to fright world w me🤗🤗
fear	tweets	she gone make me wanna start that new shit today 😂😭
fear	tweets	Wish I was a kid again. The only stressful part was whether Gabriella and Troy would get back together or not. #hsm2
fear	tweets	@mcdermo11 @rogerc32 u gave Laura so much constructive criticism she blocked u 'Lazy Give Up Now No Hope Retire' same with Heather
fear	tweets	@metrotrains why is there no disabled access at pontefract monkhill? #terrible
fear	tweets	@ZaidZamanHamid Speech is still not up to the mark. No mention of 'Genocide', Indian terrorism in Pak. It was all planned speech.
fear	tweets	@quiettcricket can you maybe break it down into smaller bits? or space it out so it doesnt seem to daunting?
fear	tweets	@mas_critical The irony is that those protesting about this kind of stuff are the Orwellian nightmare they think they’re fighting against.
fear	tweets	☊Focusing primarily on the person you’re talking to rather than yourself and the impression you’re making lessens social anxiety.
fear	tweets	@aidankerrpol I think you should do. Get the fashion police involved. #shocking
fear	tweets	@OC_Transpo some weeks there are no problems but this week is unbelievable -- are you guys even running regular 12 buses? #awful #solate
fear	tweets	@PatBlanchfield so you mean “like Uber but for despair for someone other than the driver'
fear	tweets	The 'banter' from Craigen and Sutton on BT is fucking horrid
fear	tweets	Still waiting to see if my @london2012track will make an appearance next week - two months today it was ordered  #badservice
fear	tweets	if anyone spoils any of my fucking shows I will haunt you in the afterlife so help me god
fear	tweets	Thank god the feds did not raise rates. Assume they are nervous about a world where 990 is the new employee  form  &amp; the safety net is zilch
fear	tweets	@JasonBHampton it's Bowers. I went and drove it for a while this evening #horrible
fear	tweets	You sure have a lot to say about something that doesn't even concern you 😉
fear	tweets	I have another test tonight
fear	tweets	@aroseblush Hello !\nThe bigger the bully, the more crocodile tears. Bullies always act like offended victims.
fear	tweets	@Avanquest i have unsubscribed 3 times from your spam emails still coming? STOP THE EMAILS #avanquest #software #terrible
fear	tweets	The #500thTest match would have be a T20 or an ODI if @virendersehwag @B_McCullum42 been in their National Colors #nightmare #hitter  @BCCI
fear	tweets	i was just talking about it last week .. how does your outside appearance (ie. dread locks) affect the ability you have to work?
fear	tweets	Tomorrow is the day I cut and dye my hair! 😳  #excited
fear	tweets	No @Chrishilly1987 for MOS 😡  #shocking Leads from the front 💪🏻
fear	tweets	Romero, Rojo, Blind, Memphis, Rooney. This is nearly a starting line up I’d wanna punch in the face rather than shake their hand.
fear	tweets	nadia bully me and ill expose you
fear	tweets	Who likes #werewolves and #horror and #surfing? Because BREAKER over on @readstela has all that and MORE.
fear	tweets	@JedRivett @CharlesCassidy_  Jus see if you ever do anything you pussy , u don't scare me look who u chill with 😂😂😂
fear	tweets	@Policy_Exchange A plus point, she won't have to queue for the loos. Any more plus points? Nope, can't think of any  #sexism
fear	tweets	I am in #shock and #awe and the places my #toddler manages to get his dinner.
fear	tweets	This week's Massacre Theatre pert by @LarsenOnFilm is the first one I can think of that requires subtitles. #breathless
fear	tweets	@deodevine6 i can't bully you and niall impossible😙
fear	tweets	@BlairWitchMovie love new movie\n #BlairWitch #blairwitchproject  #HorrorMovies
fear	tweets	We, #Indians, can hold our heads up high and stay unafraid. The #UNGA is well-informed about #Pakistan's #terrorism business and deception.
fear	tweets	An absolutely dire first half and I can't recall a shot on target. \n\nAgainst Accrington Stanley.
fear	tweets	@leeuwlion 'The furries are restless tonight'.
fear	tweets	@safety @Support \nHi 🌷\nWhy do you always suspend ISIS hunters\n \n👉@snafy2019\n\nKindly please reinstate our members\n*He fights terrorism d/n
fear	tweets	@Max_Kellerman  it also helps that the majority of NFL coaching is inept. Some of Bill O'Brien's play calling was wow, #awful! #GOPATS
fear	tweets	It's really alarming when an adult male calls their father 'daddy'
fear	tweets	a #monster is only a #monster if you view him through
fear	tweets	@MidgetTamer @RAIDERS @52Mack_ Make him be a bully. Sit him in a room by himself and let him look at Debo all day.
fear	tweets	@Avanquest i have unsubscribed 3 times from your spam emails still coming? STOP THE EMAILS #avanquest #software
fear	tweets	Hey no turn over after a kick - way to go Texans!  Way to go!  #Texans #terrible #noheart
fear	tweets	In my room 101 would go  Russell Howard,Tom Odell,Michael Buble!!! #pants #nogood #dire
fear	tweets	@SmileWhileYoDie @KiloSierraC @h0wabouthannah @Drops I'll be okay don't worry
fear	tweets	.@SimonNRicketts if you don't know what a patronus is, I don't think we should have to tell you #shocking
fear	tweets	#Charlotte's #young &amp; #restless; I applaud ur fire bt always b respectful of authority, police, elders, parents. Violence, not the way 🙏🏽✌🏽️
fear	tweets	When a guy comes on the train that smells like a mixture of a damp dog, old sweat and sewage works!!!! #gross  #getoffthetrain #smelly
fear	tweets	my school photo is honestly horrid, i look so ew😅
fear	tweets	honestly all my friends do bnc i mean it and i am feeling #terrible hahaha
fear	tweets	@GucciShade @KellyannePolls @ABC So?  Who cares?  Who cares about tax forms, too.  I believe terrorism and jobs are what is important.
fear	tweets	For the last 2 years the U.S. has been averaging about 4 terrorist attacks a month. Good debate topic. #Trump #Hillary
fear	tweets	not only was that the worst @EGX that's I've attended but worth one of the worst cons I've been to in the last 5 years
fear	tweets	@BBCPolitics @BBCNews I'd rather leave my child with @BorisJohnson
fear	tweets	Heard of panic! At the disco? How about Kach-ing! at the ATM
fear	tweets	Can we start a 'get Chris Sutton off our tv campaign? Spread the work #terrible #pundit #noclue
fear	tweets	@NFYFC @Wilkster_ hmm, don't know many yf  who are short on confidence! Wish I'd been one,
fear	tweets	So is texting a guy 'I'm ready for sex now' considered flirting?' #shocking
fear	tweets	#GADOT please put a left turn signal at Williams and Ivan Allen Jr Blvd. This is absolutely ridiculous #ATLtraffic
fear	tweets	@sandym709  regardless, lets say he has a permit. The permit doesn't excuse or allow him to threaten an officer(expressed or implied)w/ it.
fear	tweets	If you really care like you state @flyfrontier @FrontierCare then I would seriously address sensitivity training to your employees #awful
fear	tweets	@united horrible service. EWR. Not a cloud in the sky. Normal departure at 10am now leaving at 5pm. Crappy #UnitedAirlines
fear	tweets	“ My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me.”\n-Elizabeth Bennett (Pride and Prejudice)\n#Quotes #Courage #FaceYourFears
fear	tweets	For the last 2 years the U.S. has been averaging about 4 terrorist attacks a month. Good debate topic. #Trump #Hillary #terror
fear	tweets	Hennessey - dreadful. Mutch - is he even on the pitch? Fryers - out of his depth unfortunately. #CPFC
fear	tweets	Nawaz Sharif's UN should start #सत्य_बोध_यात्रा as after all his #UNGA speech has awaken the world about their role in sponsoring
fear	tweets	@katiewhiskey_ @bradnarok candy corn is the greatest candy in the world when it comes to being objectively terrible
fear	tweets	Let's not panic. Beat NYG who's atop the division, come home against Cleveland. Just like that you're 2-2 with a division win
fear	tweets	my alarm clock was ringing this morning n my flatmate knocked on my door and asked if i set anything on fire or if i'm burning alive :) :):)
fear	tweets	@GlobeChadFinn Sadly, not enough names.  The whole farewell tour situation would make me shy away from good value b et.
fear	tweets	#goksfillyourhouseforfree should be retitled fill your house with old trash repainted ... #shocking #junk #trash
fear	tweets	$100 says Teufel is 'reassigned' within the organization before next year, but I wish it was sooner... #Mets #thirdbasecoach #terrible #lgm
fear	tweets	It's 5:55am. I'm hungry but there is no food.
fear	tweets	@hm_custserv #awful service at your Camden store yesterday. Assistants thought it more important to put clothes on hangers than serve.
fear	tweets	@EurekaForbes U got to b kidding me. Anu from your firm responded  when I sent the contact details.  #customerexperience
fear	tweets	@metrotrains why is there no disabled access at pontefract monkhill?
fear	tweets	You have a #problem? Yes! Can you do #something about it? No! Than why
fear	tweets	We Are Source!!\n\n#mindset #philosophy #thoughtsbecomethings #news #lifehacks #fear #you #LIFE #PleaseRT #ProblemSolving
fear	tweets	@Cinestrong something a cyber bully would say
fear	tweets	@rkuuleiq Fear is best/beast product of God/s. :) #aTheism #theism #biBle #afraid #christianity #hell #heaven #purgatory #psychology #jesus
fear	tweets	I can never find the exact #emoji that I'm after at the exact moment that I need it
fear	tweets	STAY JADED everyone is #terrible
fear	tweets	My mind always seems to work its best at night #restless
fear	tweets	@mdthib This is so lovely! Or I am frightened, not sure which! But, wow!
fear	tweets	@SueWallace78 peanut butter???? You some kinda pervert??
fear	tweets	Don't forget 2 test yr #smoke #alarm, #carbon #monoxide #detector #batteries. It could save your #life. 🐈🐩 #Lovinleeds
fear	tweets	courage the cowardly dog is like american horror story for kids
fear	tweets	@Lillie_Billy don't worry me and my mans @JJB1Owens gave him a piece of our mind
fear	tweets	$100 says Teufel is 'reassigned' within the organization before next year, but I wish it was sooner... #Mets #thirdbasecoach  #lgm
fear	tweets	@MiSSLiNDZO no. 😭 the last two we were out-bidded. So we got kinda discouraged so now we are taking our sweet time. The market is stupid tho
fear	tweets	We're very busy #coding a whole network manager for #unity3d based on #steamworks networking. #gamedev #indiedev #3amDeadTime #horror #game
fear	tweets	@ChrisWarcraft The concept that a gay magazine feels like it has to cover terrible people -because they’re gay voices- seems all upside down
fear	tweets	... in the same speech.  However he did mention foreign hand and funding in terrorism in the country. 👍\n#ProudOfYouPrimeMinister
fear	tweets	#Partners are willing to #walk alongside you without being #intimidated by you. #WhoIsIT #Part2 #RelationShift #CLifeMacon
fear	tweets	Mary astounded there at the concept of having leftover milk at the end of your cereal #GBBO
fear	tweets	@smb_ryan @Kamper10 I couldn't care less about #GOTHAM. I haven't watched it since the mid point of season 1. #horrible
fear	tweets	#nobody #understand what #advocate mean if you do then use it #right #never be #afraid so #positive word is. I can that is #POWERFUL
fear	tweets	Watched tna for the first time in a long time what the hell happened to the #hardyboys #impactonpop #wwe #terrible
fear	tweets	@carlybigelow13 first you take the room now you wanna beat me up
fear	tweets	The irony in that last is that Republicans - more likely to watch Fox News - distrust the news media more. Yet they can't see Fox's lies!
fear	tweets	And there you go. After that wild start, wouldn't be surprised at all if Sweden wins this game. Too much experience there to panic.
fear	tweets	The more videos @PanicAtTheDisco  post, the more i am convinced i might should not have done that  #Brendonati
fear	tweets	For a team as big as Bayern and the they like to play football, their pitch is fucking dreadful. Certainly no Emirates pitch anyway.
fear	tweets	Starting not to give a fuck and stopped fearing the consequence
fear	tweets	@davidpreece12 @FitbaHacks Great defender, terrible positioning. Didn't know where he should be without Russel shouting at him for 90 mins
fear	tweets	@russian906 @kingerpag @dannewton1978 Of have a suspicion it was @lct1975 you know!!
fear	tweets	@Gotham3 ~ Crushes are for kids! Just like trix. \rHow bout some full blown up Love that makes you quiver deep down into your core? Y E S *=*
fear	tweets	Big up @dj_argue, did I miss phantom dread syndrome by @GenesisElijah? dudes sick.
fear	tweets	Check out @VovimPrgel - From Scotland #gamer #YouTuber #vlogger #designer #animator #artist. TY for following The Wake #horror #horrorfilm
fear	tweets	@ManUnitedWriter He has had a dreadful first half, not to mention rashford would've got on the end of a couple of those through balls #pace
fear	tweets	Forgot to plug the phone in overnight
fear	tweets	Follow this amazing Australian author @KristyBerridge #fiction #horror #zombies #angels #demons #vampires #werewolves #follow #authorlove
fear	tweets	What do Aquila, Ajahnae, and Euriechsa have in common besides ridiculously stupid,horrible,ugly, God awful names? Tracey IS NOT their father
fear	tweets	I like the commercial where @kohara19, on a chocolate milk bender, steals a soccer ball from some guys and refuses to give it back. #bully
fear	tweets	@DeionSandersJr @DeionSanders so bad...Slash prices or send them to refugee camps, like team gear after they lose championships. #awful
fear	tweets	#goksfillyourhouseforfree should be retitled fill your house with old trash repainted ...  #junk #trash
fear	tweets	@Meruna_  as a musician, I can tell you that more people get discouraged when learning because of shitty instruments than anything else.
fear	tweets	@BossUpJaee but your pussy was weak from what I heard so stfu up to me bitch . You got to threaten him that your pregnant .
fear	tweets	@MS_Hiddle_Batch no the flavour of Danish is far better but Danish pastry can be daunting to make!
fear	tweets	@Policy_Exchange A plus point, she won't have to queue for the loos. Any more plus points? Nope, can't think of any #shocking #sexism
fear	tweets	Halloween party coming soon! #turnt #ruinT #lit #firesauce #hotsauce #mildsauce #getsauced #champagnedreams #scary  #kittens
fear	tweets	@dc_mma @ChampionsFight think shes afraid to fight Holly. One can only imagine what goes through her head when she thinks of Cyborg #terror
fear	tweets	@BigLepley @angela31694996 @TheIndigoArrow Want to start a biker gang together when the GTA Online Biker DLC comes out?
fear	tweets	The kid at the pool yelling is about to get a foot up his ass. #shutup #parents #kids
fear	tweets	It's never the end / When the moment is dire. / A small spark of hope / Can relight a new fire.
fear	tweets	I hate Bakewell tart … anything that tastes of almond essence is just horrid! #GBBO
fear	tweets	@ImJim_YoureNot  cyber bully
fear	tweets	I have no #alarm preset #life will #wakemeup
fear	tweets	@vInZzzY we regret the inconvenience caused. We have noted your concern. We will get in touch with you soon to discuss. Rgds, Abhijit
fear	tweets	@Berbaqueue @_indubioproreo shocking work ethic by our players, Rooney stifled by their laziness
fear	tweets	@residentadvisor thanks for getting back to me, exemplary customer service for a loyal customer #jk #awful #residentadvisor #poorservice
fear	tweets	@TheYoungEvans_ 'Kylie, you know me. I won't take no for answer for this kind of things...' *he would smirk and start on the crust.*
fear	tweets	@Nxrthstxr I think it's the daunting fact of the typical offer being those grades. Even though it's been proven not to be the case exactly
fear	tweets	A liar an a bully for president? They say every vote matter , well  I'm sorry you'll not get my vote until the year 2020
fear	tweets	Good start to the day I forgot to set my #alarm just as well it's #Friday 😆
fear	tweets	It's simple I get after two shots of espresso 'Grande, decaf, 130 degrees soy americano with extra foam' #barista #nightmare
fear	tweets	@sjgreer24 @cciedotnyc @Buttockus @ChrisCJackson @Bayonethics Have you read the OT and Pauline Epistles? They have countless horrid rules
fear	tweets	@jody_paterson So I worry about emphasis on 'keeping family together' as a guiding principle, due to my own experiences
fear	tweets	339:709 A local habitation and a name.\nSuch tricks hath strong imagination,\nThat, if it would but apprehend some joy,\n#AMNDBots
fear	tweets	@isthismike_p that nigga is horrible bro
fear	tweets	Was going to get a new #horror movie #tattoo tonight, but my artist flaked out on me for the 3rd time &amp; said he was done tattooing!
fear	tweets	Did you know I specialise in #anxiety  and #panic attacks? Get in touch for all of my solutions for you. #Coventry
fear	tweets	@thebully10 does being a #bully make u feel like a #bigman? Cos it makes u a #twat
fear	tweets	Not sure that men can handle a woman that's got her crap together. #intimidation #independent
fear	tweets	We hesitate to #live our #dream because of some unknown #fear which actually does not exist.' #AqeelSyed\n\n#LifeisBeautiful #LiveWithPurpose
fear	tweets	Step out of your comfort zone. \nGo for risks.\nFace things you fear. \n\nThis is when life starts to happen.\n\n#cpd
fear	tweets	@RoWillFindYou Eric couldn't help but laugh, though that made him wince in pain. It hurt. A lot. He just wanted to sit down somewhere —
fear	tweets	If Monday had a face I would punch it #monday  #face #punch #fight #joke #like #firstworldproblems #need #coffee #asap #follow
fear	tweets	@Cory_Bonini AP didn't have a productive week 1 or 1st half against GB and Kalil is horrible! @Vikings D is its strongest asset currently.
fear	tweets	Wish I was a kid again. The only stressful part was whether Gabriella and Troy would get back together or not. #hsm2 #nightmare
fear	tweets	Don't think I'll hesitate to run you over. Last time I checked, I still had 'Accident Forgiveness' on my insurance policy...
fear	tweets	Fear blocks blessings, faith unlocks them. #ManUp #fear #faith
fear	tweets	After a nervous couple of days test results now confirm my life will be no different whatsoever as the result of two actors divorcing, phew!
fear	tweets	How is that in 2016, a 757 airplane does not have WiFi...ridiculous.#AmericanAirlines #americanairlinessucks #AATeam #horrible
fear	tweets	GUY was such a video I'm shaking @ladygaga
fear	tweets	Got to be up in 4 hours to go back to work #cantsleep #excited
fear	tweets	@danielleelowell awe man I'm mad I'm sitting here already cutting tulle and ribbon already 😂
fear	tweets	The most important characteristic of leadership is the lack of . #activism #equity #revolution
fear	tweets	Texans played horrible.  Bad play calling, bad protection of the ball, bad coaching, bad defense, bad overall performance. #Texans
fear	tweets	Transform your hardship(s) into a burning #desire to succeed. Never #fear #failure, without it there would be no #success. $SPX #FinTech
fear	tweets	Crossword puzzle is oat meals solitary respecting the flat out portentous nutrient rootstock re scruple failur...
fear	tweets	The radio just told me Lady GaGa is going country, which is like if the Beatles decided to do opera singing for their final albums #awful
fear	tweets	@StephenKing\n\nStephen King never once spoke out about how the Left crushes #FreeSpeech in publishing world.\n\n #Trump  #scifi #ccot #p2
fear	tweets	.@Tolumanda love it! so true. As @Deedeey_ taught me, fear can be an illusion. #coaching  #courage
fear	tweets	New play through tonight! Pretty much a blind run. Only played the game once and maybe got 2 levels it. #Rage
fear	tweets	The kid at the pool yelling is about to get a foot up his ass. #shutup #parents #kids #horrible
fear	tweets	How had Matty Dawson not scored there!!!!! #terrible
fear	tweets	@TJ_FASHO lmao clown my own hair I'm going to dread lmao
fear	tweets	I saw someone discourage someone from following their dreams. Just because you want to live in mediocrity doesn't mean someone else should.
fear	tweets	@SueWallace78 peanut butter???? You some kinda pervert?? #awful
fear	tweets	Rojo is a terrible defender
fear	tweets	This maybe a new start but it will always be align with the end.  #forward
fear	tweets	@CBSThisMorning @newsgirl123456 again, profiling DOESN'T discourage (September 20, 2016; 18:41 EDT)  #TRUMP #FAIL
fear	tweets	There's always that one song which makes you turn of the radio, as you'd rather sit in silence 😡
fear	tweets	@clairepilkingt2 oh god no that's awful mine don't last that long thank god. Thank you\n Xx
fear	tweets	Why is it when you nap during the day you are so comfortable but sleeping at night you'll never be as comfortable
fear	tweets	Season 3 of penny dreadful is on Netflix...well my afternoon is filled
fear	tweets	@BlairWitchMovie love new movie\n#BlairWitch #blairwitchproject #horror #HorrorMovies
fear	tweets	@EE your a joke I pay for data when I'm in Spain and you then text and say I've used up all my data #terrible service
fear	tweets	Today has dragged on
fear	tweets	Fosu-Mensa is having a nightmare 15 minutes. Difference between Premier League reserves and League 1 is still wide
fear	tweets	I really hate Mel and Sue. They think they're hilarious and they're just awful
fear	tweets	@DeionSandersJr @DeionSanders so bad...Slash prices or send them to refugee camps, like team gear after they lose championships.
fear	tweets	@zavvi @zavvihelp only offering 6 moth warranty #ps4pro  #truth #ripoff
fear	tweets	@Gibberman10 @ScottHoward42 any of y'all remember when MLB tried a futuristic jersey those were all #terrible
fear	tweets	@UCSMindfulness thank u so much! we just finished another #mindfulness film called #release about #anxiety - plz share!
fear	tweets	@TheDuranSite Russian mistrust of the U.S is well justified &amp; the precaution they've taken are very prudent.
fear	tweets	@NandosSA just received order from @OrderInSA &amp; the chips are under cooked &amp; half raw!!! Usually best part of the meal #notcool #terrible
fear	tweets	@rkuuleiq Fear is best/beast product of God/s. :) #aTheism #theism #biBle  #christianity #hell #heaven #purgatory #psychology #jesus
fear	tweets	@SteveBryantArt I was pretty sure it was a Golden Ticket. Get a tour. Make a mistake. Something horrific will happen to you. Good day sir.
fear	tweets	#picoftheday : How...why... Really... !!\n    #funny #picoftheday #lol #random #laugh #chair #of #despair #funnypics  #virgin #cafe #i...
fear	tweets	I just want to say: social media isn’t here to #bully that has to be #stopbullying ! Please be kind to eaxh other! #lovewins
fear	tweets	Don't let the behavior of others destroy ur inner peace.' -Dalai Lama @OWNTV #healing #depression #anxiety #intuition #meditation #book
fear	tweets	How had Matty Dawson not scored there!!!!!
fear	tweets	Fuck being shy, I'm trying to be up in them thighs.
fear	tweets	If you really care like you state @flyfrontier @FrontierCare then I would seriously address sensitivity training to your employees
fear	tweets	@BartholomewD It's -terrible-! We're going to the local fish/chip place in Kirribilli
fear	tweets	Just want Saturday to be over but then again I want to do good #LSAT
fear	tweets	Let's refuse to live in #fear -  #c$%t
fear	tweets	I've used Dey Know as my alarm clock song throughout college #RIPShawtyLo
fear	tweets	When I walk in darkness of despondency, Sc.verses I've memorized shine a light in my heart. Ex: Lam 3:22-25 #despondency
fear	tweets	When someone tells you they're going to 'tear you apart' and all they have to say is 'why are you so tall?'
fear	tweets	My fav #movies are #horror but they don't make them like they used too. Haven't seen a great one in years
fear	tweets	Aberdeen st Johnstone, let's see who can punt it the furthest #awful
fear	tweets	thank you for your concern, computer, but my last name isn't misspelled, it's just weird
fear	tweets	@realDonaldTrump @KellyannePolls New campaign slogan idea...'I know you are but what am I?'  #Trump2016 #yourefired #deflect
fear	tweets	We're very busy #coding a whole network manager for #unity3d based on #steamworks networking. #gamedev #indiedev #3amDeadTime  #game
fear	tweets	.@Tolumanda love it! so true. As @Deedeey_ taught me, fear can be an illusion. #coaching #fear #courage
fear	tweets	@UndeadLayne @Lauren_Southern all the bully
fear	tweets	Oh I get i see it's #TexasTech playing tonight not the #Texans #TNF #texansarebad #terrible
fear	tweets	Now ...what to do for the next hour while waiting for #OurGirl to start @BBCOne ?!
fear	tweets	@stevie7t Why does talksport sound like it's being broadcasted from someone's basement  #quality #amateurs
fear	tweets	@iSmashFizzle that's me all the time. I carry ginger candy, peppermint oil and sea-bands at all times
fear	tweets	@CestLouLeLoup okay, not dead, but if I were, I'd come back to lovingly haunt your sweet asses
fear	tweets	@BBHOH #terrible Paul so deserved that win!!! #bbfail
fear	tweets	@ltsukis im love you, even if you bully me sadly
fear	tweets	@alicemazzy he was more partisan on social issues a few years back; now he just concern trolls the center left as Chait does the far left
fear	tweets	Anyyyyone wanna go to fright fest with me on Friday night? 👻
fear	tweets	@DSDambuster just finally started #homefronttherevolution, what did you all do the story and gameplay???  #wasteofmoney
fear	tweets	Jeans with fake pockets #horrible
fear	tweets	@GroundSwellCLE @ClevelandCNBC @KingJames @mavcarter @SpringHillEnt @boughb #revitalize #ClevelandHustles #daunting task, #hustle
fear	tweets	@CursedRoyal I chuckle and shake my head, 'No that didn't bug me too much. I was still going to ask you but there's a lot you still don't--
fear	tweets	@Mickeyplyler @QualkTalk the refs are in GT's favor tonight.
fear	tweets	I have a job interview with @BarclaysUK in Loughborough next month !!!
fear	tweets	The most important characteristic of leadership is the lack of #fear.  #activism #equity #revolution
fear	tweets	Can we start a 'get Chris Sutton off our tv campaign? Spread the work  #pundit #noclue
fear	tweets	@_stardust_3 unless your concern is people figuring out who you are for wtvr reason, I don't see why you shouldn't tweet about other things
fear	tweets	Getting terrible download speeds for fifa smh.
fear	tweets	One more step in long work #visa process is over. Relief. Onto next step. #expat
fear	tweets	You don't know what to expect by Brendon's video lmao LA devotee video got me shook
fear	tweets	Are there any #horror sites that would be interested in my writing a guest article/review? Been really craving a literary outlet lately.
fear	tweets	yesterday i finished watching penny dreadful and from all the beautiful things i saw one question remains: were the writers HIM's fans?
fear	tweets	Ready for my sweet princess to arrive. I'll he 37 weeks this Saturday! #excited #nervous
fear	tweets	2,034 words today #amwriting #horror #novel 42,080 'Magnitude' total so far. 25Kish to go.
fear	tweets	Overtime... #TeamNA #WCH2016
fear	tweets	@ManUtd it was a terrible Freekick...
fear	tweets	@moore_oliver it's funny how they can be in such a hurry but have plenty of time to stop and threaten people
fear	tweets	How I Murdered Your Mother #SpookyTv
fear	tweets	@Jchawes What is your favorite #horror movie? #ghosthunters
fear	tweets	It's not #dread. It's called #Locks
fear	tweets	@aIakazamjackass been better. It's really stupid don't worry
fear	tweets	@NandosSA just received order from @OrderInSA &amp; the chips are under cooked &amp; half raw!!! Usually best part of the meal #notcool
fear	tweets	@TheMoosesAngel He looks down at his brother, a smile forming on his face. 'What? People fearing me?'
fear	tweets	the ending of how I met your mother is dreadful
fear	tweets	Sir, my concern is not whether God is on our side; my greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right.' - Abraham Lincoln
fear	tweets	Hahahah what a horrific penalty from bayer. 5 feet wide. Jesus
fear	tweets	I polished my nails, but can't find the polish remover. It look like a 3yr old polished my nails lol #horrible
fear	tweets	I lost my blinders ....
fear	tweets	It's not going to break you it's just going to shake you
fear	tweets	@Joey7Barton I remember Joey slagging England player's off bringing out books after crap tournaments..same same..crap player
fear	tweets	@MichaelSalfino It still destroys Fear The Walking Dead. That show is horrible
fear	tweets	#bestadvice from a #movienight, pickup the #phone &amp; #start dialing, no1 will knw a #startups #product #service if thy dnt tell the #world
fear	tweets	On the other side of fear lies freedom! - JB Glossinger #quote
fear	tweets	Howl at the moon with @HorrorSociety at @FatCatChicago next Wednesday the 28th for a FREE double feature of SILVER BULLET and CURSED
fear	tweets	@lindseylouwho_ be nice if the Texans could hold onto the ball to give fuller and Hopkins a chance!!! #awful #TNF
fear	tweets	As much as I want a normal little life.. It wouldn't suit me, I'd get restless, I need to just do what I want at all times to be happy 😊
fear	tweets	Huns are like a box of coffee revels #horrible
fear	tweets	A shy failure is nobler than an immodest success.
fear	tweets	@mr_HAAAAN wow inadvertently horrible puns is definitely my thing
fear	tweets	I really wanna go to fright fest 😩
fear	tweets	This has #turned out #better then I expected admitting you tried to #intimidate 😂😂 #cantstoplaughing I really can't and it's in #spokeword
fear	tweets	#aliens #zombie #gore #slash #ghost #sith #horror I love it all. 🔪
fear	tweets	Just want to be a dad so i can play kick the baby with my little one #southpark #mellogang #ghastly #edm #plur #dad #djlife #dj #producer
fear	tweets	O you who have believed, fear Allah and believe in His Messenger; He will [then] give you a double portion of His mercy...' (Quran 57:28)
fear	tweets	Drop every fear...
fear	tweets	@RealMichaelKay Annoys me to about the Ortiz tribute too, how would the Oriole fans and organization feel if Yanks did that to them?
fear	tweets	That free kick from Rooney was awful
fear	tweets	today has been terrible but tonight will end better because I get to see Malik ❤️
fear	tweets	Wazza blocks Carrick's shot and then misses a sitter that Memphis, who was ready beside him, surely wouldve buried. Good start lol #MUFC
fear	tweets	Howl at the moon with @HorrorSociety at @FatCatChicago next Wednesday the 28th for a FREE double feature of SILVER BULLET and CURSED #horror
fear	tweets	ACT 4 #anxiety &amp; #depression group. @livingwellihc beginning Mon October 17 for 6 weeks. Contact me to register now! #mindfulness #Halifax
fear	tweets	Shoutout to @VZWSupport for ruining my iPhone 7 order!!
fear	tweets	Confiaejce comes not from always being right but from not fearing to be wrong.-Peter T. Mcintyre
fear	tweets	Wee cunts playing chappy in my street, got my shoes on so I can chase and scare the fuck out of them
fear	tweets	Unruly kids at 8am in the morning #nothanks ripping the flower beds up by the roots while their parents watch
fear	tweets	Anytime @perezed gets near a mic, someone needs to smack him w a bat. @BBTN  #marblesinmouth
fear	tweets	@LmRyle @tomcolicchio @realDonaldTrump @HillaryClinton @ajjaffe I understand your concerns but look at her foundation contributions
fear	tweets	@AOLUK @JamesHayr @TheDrum Anychance of addressing the communication I sent to you yesterday??? I still haven't had any contact
fear	tweets	@KateyKeegan now I'm really excited for November! Hope they're not all horrid chavs though 😅
fear	tweets	Omg he kissed her🙈 #shy #w
fear	tweets	@falklands_utd @mauriciomacri \nbecause distrust in life , Argentina has a lot of heart and this President is worth every vote.
fear	tweets	@Just_Alasia I agree. Btw, have u seen Ep22, Granger, O?  That was the episode when I knew Anna was coming back, the conversation at start.
fear	tweets	#Trends thread;'P)..it was in my #drafts&amp;now #posted 2 mins after my #birthday..so #close:'O!:''/...but anyway it #really was the #start of
fear	tweets	Look at this #massiah of #youngleader\n#Pakistan #massiah of
fear	tweets	You make me breathless.
fear	tweets	To com sede de milk shake
fear	tweets	Halloween party coming soon! #turnt #ruinT #lit #firesauce #hotsauce #mildsauce #getsauced #champagnedreams #scary #haunt #kittens
fear	tweets	@Mickeyplyler @QualkTalk the refs are in GT's favor tonight. #terrible
fear	tweets	@Rocks_n_Ropes Can't believe how rude your cashier was today when I was returning an item!  Your customer service is slacking. #terrible
fear	tweets	@Wild_Lucario_ *chuckles* did I scare you?
fear	tweets	@GreensACT @ShaneRattenbury @carolinelec what about #publictransport to &amp; from #CanberraAirport. Most cities have. Mr Barr very #coy on.
fear	tweets	@eugenelaverty @WorldSBK all the best Moto GP is loosing a very talented rider
fear	tweets	@BBHOH #terrible Paul so deserved that win!!! #movie #ChildrenOfMen.\n\n#cages  #refugees
fear	tweets	@LFC What an awful team
fear	tweets	@TiganVarcolac &lt; feel this precious pleasure. 'Harder..' He whispered almost breathless and his index finger stroked along his waistband &gt;
fear	tweets	@WunderlistHelp are you guys still down? When can we go up?
fear	tweets	I remember when Rooney wanted to leave United and the fans threaten to kill the man and bare junk... wanna regretting that now? 😂😂
fear	tweets	Walk right through them! See way past them, and don't even hesitate running them over.
fear	tweets	Check out @VovimPrgel - From Scotland #gamer #YouTuber #vlogger #designer #animator #artist. TY for following The Wake  #horrorfilm
fear	tweets	#smackdev #ptp #start word
fear	tweets	never afraid to start over
fear	tweets	@Netflix_ME penny dreadful season 3?
fear	tweets	STAY JADED everyone is
fear	tweets	oh yay old scientist builds himself a robot assistant and makes it look like a hot naked woman nothing alarming here
fear	tweets	No red card for Gordon there? The ref must be a Celtic fan as that was a shocking challenge.
fear	tweets	@humeraslam @MehrTarar @sherryrehman , yes, already he spoke so many lies with timid body language. Baluchistan could have been his own trap
fear	tweets	@BBCTomEnglish @TimesSport And the dreadful Franglaise.
fear	tweets	@smb_ryan @Kamper10 I couldn't care less about #GOTHAM. I haven't watched it since the mid point of season 1.
fear	tweets	They used to laugh at her coz she couldn't afford a junky now they stare in awe while she is winning.
fear	tweets	@AlanAlanconway Same it's good but not great.Don't Breathe is the horror film of the month for me. My Fav horror film of the year (so far)
fear	tweets	@SportsTraderIT Madrid is playing awful and no modric but 90 minutes in Bernabéu stadium are so so long. Viallreal never won there
fear	tweets	@97_aleix having a terrific game and not at all fazed #MCFC
fear	tweets	@corruptmelon now im feeling the
fear	tweets	No we didn't just bully our professor to move the Chem quiz to Monday 😂
fear	tweets	@OC_Transpo some weeks there are no problems but this week is unbelievable -- are you guys even running regular 12 buses?  #solate
fear	tweets	#terror @sjdonghaev i love you
fear	tweets	@SalmonDelicious @bigdickkishibae I lost it at 18. Like, really not a big deal. Don't worry about trivial shit like that.
fear	tweets	Going to get myself a copy of @StephenKing's CUJO for an upcoming project that I can't talk about just yet.  #amwriting
fear	tweets	Regardless of your age or station in life, it all comes down to one simple truth: you just have to #start. - Jon Acuff #inspiring #quote
fear	tweets	@STLouis_RamsFan their whole team is limited when they're on the field.
fear	tweets	It was an #amazing #start to the first #fall  day. Will it be an #Indiansummer
fear	tweets	Oh I get i see it's #TexasTech playing tonight not the #Texans #TNF #texansarebad
fear	tweets	This maybe a new start but it will always be align with the end. #start #forward
fear	tweets	Don't let fear hold you back from being who you want to be. Use it's power to push you towards your goals. No more fear, just action. #fear
fear	tweets	@astockeyWTAE @SonniAbatta she is terrific at her job, where is she headed-- I missed that?
fear	tweets	@JasonBHampton it's Bowers. I went and drove it for a while this evening
fear	tweets	@RockSolidShow @Pat_Francis #revolting cocks if you think I'm sexy!
fear	tweets	How is that in 2016, a 757 airplane does not have WiFi...ridiculous. #AmericanAirlines #americanairlinessucks #AATeam
fear	tweets	Watched tna for the first time in a long time what the hell happened to the #hardyboys #impactonpop #wwe
fear	tweets	My interview went well today, I can't wait to find out what happens.  #excited #interview #jobinterview
fear	tweets	Fewer and fewer good horror offerings from Hollywood every year. Or have I just gotten too old for this shit?
fear	tweets	I delete numbers so quick with no hesitation
fear	tweets	@1NatalieMaines Can you imagine being the person who has to spray tan him?
fear	tweets	After Nawaz Sharif's speech on terrorism, Kejriwal is expected to talk on Governance.
fear	tweets	“ Less sugar, more fruit.\n Less soda, more water.\n Less worry, more sleep.\n LESS WORDS, MORE ACTION.”
fear	tweets	Don't let fear hold you back from being who you want to be. Use it's power to push you towards your goals. No more fear, just action.
fear	tweets	induction day tomorrow for pizza express
fear	tweets	Lady gaga fucking followed i have been waiting for this day for ages it fucking happened im shaking thank you so much @ladygaga ❤️
fear	tweets	@STLouis_RamsFan their whole team is limited when they're on the field.  #terrible
fear	tweets	@siomo @NEWSTALK1010 20 says he gets reelected..... #be
fear	tweets	@cstonehoops Gonzaga not listed in the article but at 65/1 they have tremendous value, they are top10 team for sure, got everything you want
fear	tweets	wonder if at any point #BobMarley ever actually became #afraid of just how #high he'd gotten. :o #420
fear	tweets	new tires &amp; an alarm system on my car. fwm now!
fear	tweets	Good Morning!!!\n\n #leadership #healthcareIT #socialmedia #connector #ceo #writer #AI #EQ #security #bigdata #Growthhacking #tech
fear	tweets	Unbelievable from McDavid and Matthews. Lundqvist can do nothing but shake his head #WCH2016
fear	tweets	@CSTrey4 thanks brotein shake 😈😈😈
fear	tweets	.@SimonNRicketts if you don't know what a patronus is, I don't think we should have to tell you
fear	tweets	Hopefully I'll get this Best Buy job, and officaly #start my #streaming #career , working towards doing something I love #1DayAtaTime
fear	tweets	Everything you’ve ever wanted is on the other side of fear. –George Addair #ThursdayThoughts #yourpushfactor #fear #life #quote
fear	tweets	If you truly want more of God in your life, it requires letting go of some of the old things, to allow new things to flourish. #stop #start
fear	tweets	@darwinwatersons @pennyfitzger31 @gumballwatter15 ok but why tomorrow a horrible day, my day was great!
fear	tweets	@madihayousufzai Please DM your concern
fear	tweets	It's better to be wetter than it is to be dry' jesus christ Val don't be shy hen 😂😂 #GBBO
fear	tweets	$8 million in box office doesnt do this movie justice. Political or not, #SnowdenMovie is a terrific thriller and love story. @Snowden
fear	tweets	Thoroughly enjoying AHS tonight. #ahs #horror #americanhorrorstory
fear	tweets	@jessespector @nasboat old rich white religious guy supports republicans. Not shocking at all.
fear	tweets	Swear all of my guy friends are scaredy cats. You don't do horror movies. You don't do haunted houses. Wtf do you do then?
fear	tweets	@ntfc watched the cobblers loads this season how is gorre a pro footballler terrible
fear	tweets	Everywhere I go, the air I breathe in tastes like home.' - @The_Currys #restless
fear	tweets	Everything you’ve ever wanted is on the other side of fear. –George Addair #ThursdayThoughts #yourpushfactor  #life #quote
fear	tweets	Ramos with his ground shaking headers..😏
fear	tweets	@OnyxFlare25 She chuckles, shaking her head. 'No...I just have a really vivid imagination, I guess. It happens when you meet someone&gt;
fear	tweets	How in the world did Nicole beat Paul?!?! #terrible #bb18 #BBFinale What was the jury thinking?? 😳😳😳
fear	tweets	My view of the human being is as a dynamic expression of the Cosmos we exist within #humanism
fear	tweets	@keprdad  BTW, George W Bush left office in ,09. We have had terrific leadership under Barack Obama. Keep America Great.
fear	tweets	What's the most important thing you need to accomplish today? #onlinemarketing #solopreneur #start up #success
fear	tweets	I'm curious to know just how much money the original Air Bud made to justify the continuation of these awful sequels and spinoffs.
fear	tweets	@DreKnott You've got tremendous range.
fear	tweets	ok, ok.. I know.. my last tweet was #terrible
fear	tweets	@NHLexpertpicks @usahockey USA was embarrassing to watch. When was the last time you guys won a game..? #horrible #joke
fear	tweets	And I would advise that everyone wait to watch @KevinCanWaitCBS ,or actually don't wait, just don't even watch it because it is
fear	tweets	@HoustonTexans just trying to go home tonight? A run on 2nd and 20 and a run on 3rd and 20? That's what champs do... #sike #losers
fear	tweets	Yo Yo Yo,my name is #DarthVader \nI feel like I need to puff on my inhaler (I'm no rapper but that was some sick bars)  #bars #rap
fear	tweets	#nana 4 hoco bc my dream since freshman year awe 😙❤❤❤ @thecandeyman
fear	tweets	@residentadvisor thanks for getting back to me, exemplary customer service for a loyal customer #jk  #residentadvisor #poorservice
fear	tweets	Every year I go to universal studios to horror nights as a 3rd wheel lol 😊😂
fear	tweets	My goals are so big they scare small minds
fear	tweets	if you do me wrong i will not hesitate to block you and cut you out of my life completely 😇 it's one of my greatest talents
fear	tweets	Solid starts by #Bozzelli and #BenEvans. Hoping for a good #start !
fear	tweets	@SusannahSpot I could pop round
fear	tweets	Step over #fear and rely on #faith!
fear	tweets	@JogglingDroid @BrancoCarmine @Otto_English yeah, #UK was quite the
fear	tweets	Open to suggestions on a good #horror movie. Just saw 31 and It follows recently, dug both. Gimme something good. #movienight #netflix
fear	tweets	Research has determined 70% of #laughter is actually .
fear	tweets	I like cycling because I get to intimidate people with my powerful calves &amp; horrendous tan lines.
fear	tweets	@washingtondc @NMAAHC That is Noah Ark, it's a terrific design.
fear	tweets	@PanicAtTheDisco hey, y'all announced it like immediately after I asked. Nice. Thanks y'all
fear	tweets	In my room 101 would go  Russell Howard,Tom Odell,Michael Buble!!! #pants #nogood
fear	tweets	@___margs @juliana_f_reyes Hey Michael! Thanks for following up, yeah I think you'd be a terrific contrib. Looping in assoc ed Juliana
fear	tweets	im what a 90s tv bully would call 'a nerd' but i would rather shove one thousand nickels into my right earhole than go to new york comic con
fear	tweets	You have a #problem? Yes! Can you do #something about it? No! Than why #worry
fear	tweets	@TheOnlySweeney their slogan should've been #start instead of #finish
fear	tweets	@Oooooo_Donna @sturgishigh @politicususa   @CNN took its first baby  step now let's hope they will start running
fear	tweets	The radio just told me Lady GaGa is going country, which is like if the Beatles decided to do opera singing for their final albums
fear	tweets	This week's Massacre Theatre pert by @LarsenOnFilm is the first one I can think of that requires subtitles.
fear	tweets	@Gibberman10 @ScottHoward42 any of y'all remember when MLB tried a futuristic jersey those were all
fear	tweets	Show your new job you're not #afraid of new tasks. Take on a #project, be brave, make an #impression. #WorkTiveTruth
fear	tweets	Action is the foundational key to all success ~Pablo Picasso #inspiring #quote #action #hustle  #dosomething #success
fear	tweets	@DailyJoshleen KA- like the start of cake and then Like saying C - if that makes sense 😭😂
fear	tweets	@RobdotThom @sulphurhoops in fact they need to start making all holidays! Maybe even e dry month pick a theme so we can have them all year
fear	tweets	81' Goal scorer Vidar Kjartansson comes off in favor of Dor Micha! Another terrific performance by @Vidarkjartans #YallaMaccabi
fear	tweets	Round 2  #pcola
fear	tweets	Everywhere I go, the air I breathe in tastes like home.' - @The_Currys
fear	tweets	Jorge deserves it, honestly. He's weak.  #90dayfiance
fear	tweets	Not sure that men can handle a woman that's got her crap together.  #independent
fear	tweets	@GSchwartz_ it wasn't a joke .
fear	tweets	Don't be so shy #nl
fear	tweets	Ladies and gentlemen\nAfter the tremendous success of #PanamaLeaks\nNow presenting #BahamasLeaks 😂
fear	tweets	Don't be afraid to give up the good to go for the great. - John D. Rockefeller #quote #inspiration #afraid #great #motivation
fear	tweets	Pretty excited for American horror story tonight
fear	tweets	@mackenzian yes! That was my one qualm. These are deeply theological issues we're engaging theologically.
fear	tweets	Aberdeen st Johnstone, let's see who can punt it the furthest
fear	tweets	Jorge deserves it, honestly. He's weak. #revolting #90dayfiance
fear	tweets	At the end of the day I know that my kids will never worry about me leaving them 💕
fear	tweets	I really wanna go fright night at Thorpe Park next month 👻
fear	tweets	Fear blocks blessings, faith unlocks them. #ManUp  #faith
fear	tweets	Anyone else find @Microsoft 'anniversary windows 10 update 1607' a Complete
fear	tweets	I was having a good dream.. and then my alarm went off
fear	tweets	Huns are like a box of coffee revels
fear	tweets	@LakersTakeover it ain't that serious. #HOUvsNE  #igotbetterthingstodotonightthandie
fear	tweets	And I would advise that everyone wait to watch @KevinCanWaitCBS ,or actually don't wait, just don't even watch it because it is #awful
fear	tweets	@lindseylouwho_ be nice if the Texans could hold onto the ball to give fuller and Hopkins a chance!!!  #TNF
fear	tweets	bout to read this article 'Moving the Conversation Forward: Homosexuality &amp; Christianity' from someone in the foursquare church
fear	tweets	@Burnt_Out_Darth @theaterofscifi thanks.
fear	tweets	Don't let the behavior of others destroy ur inner peace.' -Dalai Lama @OWNTV #healing #depression  #intuition #meditation #book
fear	tweets	@hotpatooties more like quickie divorce
fear	tweets	@Max_Kellerman  it also helps that the majority of NFL coaching is inept. Some of Bill O'Brien's play calling was wow, ! #GOPATS
fear	tweets	If you think you're good to go already, don't worry about it.
fear	tweets	Yo Yo Yo,my name is #DarthVader \nI feel like I need to puff on my inhaler (I'm no rapper but that was some sick bars) #breathless #bars #rap
fear	tweets	ok, ok.. I know.. my last tweet was
fear	tweets	It's a good day at work when you get to shake Jim Lehrer's hand. Thanks, @keratx! Still kicking myself for being to shy to hug @mcuban.
fear	tweets	@CurtisJobling Yes indeed! We know masses of students would be so excited to see you! We need to get this sorted! #haunt
fear	tweets	.@REDBLACKS’ Chris Williams: 5 yards shy of joining 1,000-yard club. Bowman (1,279), Walker (1,168) &amp; Roosevelt (1,095) already there. #CFL
fear	tweets	@Coyblake6 @ChloeCramphorn hahahaa you know coy!
fear	tweets	Ellie from @myspanishboots is here to answer your questions! Don't be shy - she loves talking about #equestrian fashion ;-) #equestrianhour
fear	tweets	Enjoyed seamlessly setting my #alarm using #okgoogle #Nougat. Just tell #Okgoogle what to do and she does it. #PersonalAssistant
fear	tweets	Don't be afraid to give up the good to go for the great. - John D. Rockefeller #quote #inspiration  #great #motivation
fear	tweets	@JoeFahezy I could of told you that one lmfao 😂 Then old niggas get wasted and start fucking around
fear	tweets	I have learned over the years that when one's mind is made up, this diminishes fear. –Rosa Parks #quotes #motivation
fear	tweets	Just want to be a dad so i can play kick the baby with my little one #southpark #mellogang  #edm #plur #dad #djlife #dj #producer
fear	tweets	I like the commercial where @kohara19, on a chocolate milk bender, steals a soccer ball from some guys and refuses to give it back.
fear	tweets	@BigDaddyx47 awe I'm sorry! I have 2 dogs 3 cats &amp; a snake
fear	tweets	If you truly want more of God in your life, it requires letting go of some of the old things, to allow new things to flourish. #stop
fear	tweets	It's not always how you #start it's how you #FINISH
fear	tweets	My mind always seems to work its best at night
fear	tweets	I'm excited for the #FirstDayofFall &amp; the rest of the season. I have 2 #Halloween #scare events I'm covering for @ThrillzCo in the next week
fear	tweets	^^^^^\n//Don't worry if your character is already taken. The RP I'm looking for is a non couple forming RP. Just a fun loving haunting.//\n^^^
fear	tweets	@Zen1dfabflake You are all our angelic comrades!
fear	tweets	@DemPhillyEagles @StonedPhillyFan @CraigfromCincy don't ever compare those scrubs to ben..he'll shake off your whole DL and throw a td #7
fear	tweets	@NativeApprops @SBShear @HuffingtonPost Shew. That was
fear	tweets	Profit are from 5-20% per day to 100-300% per month.Don't hesitate to contact us for the more results! info@fxventury.com
fear	tweets	Hey no turn over after a kick - way to go Texans!  Way to go! #Texans  #noheart
fear	tweets	@pixietangerine @hatersbackoff im so exited!! I am shaking so much 😍😍 and im so pround of Colleen and the fandom! Everyone is amazing 😍
fear	tweets	@frecklybellamy the walking dead, mr robot, american horror story, merlin
fear	tweets	@eclecticbrotha Thanks, big bro. It's shake and bake and you helped.
fear	tweets	shake fries
fear	tweets	@aidankerrpol I think you should do. Get the fashion police involved.
fear	tweets	#GetSmartWithARQ is a smart way to start investing and #whiteicenetwork is smart source 2 #start #skilled #manpower #recruitment for ur firm
fear	tweets	Action is the foundational key to all success ~Pablo Picasso #inspiring #quote #action #hustle #start #dosomething #success
fear	tweets	#start ur day wit a smile\n#buviobby
fear	tweets	Ready for my sweet princess to arrive. I'll he 37 weeks this Saturday! #excited
fear	tweets	@turoturok  We're glad to hear that everything is resolved. If you need anything else, please do not hesitate to reach out to us.  TY!
fear	tweets	@NHLexpertpicks @usahockey USA was embarrassing to watch. When was the last time you guys won a game..?  #joke
fear	tweets	So is texting a guy 'I'm ready for sex now' considered flirting?'
fear	tweets	@CurtisJobling Yes indeed! We know masses of students would be so excited to see you! We need to get this sorted!
fear	tweets	Not setting an alarm to nap &gt;&gt;
fear	tweets	@tannerfox awe cnt wait to see
fear	tweets	This is a terrific university-a unique university..Athabasca University has become a part of my head &amp; a part of my heart' Peter MacKinnon
fear	tweets	@FraserKeegan just had a steak pie supper #tremendous
fear	tweets	mattmilne76 Thank you for letting us know!  Please do not hesitate to contact us in the future, if our assistance is needed. Thank you!
fear	tweets	Study finds #awe &amp; #wonder of something greater than self, leads to #creative boosts of expansive thinking. @outsideonline #write #thoreau
fear	tweets	Some serious hip shaking going on tonight 😜
fear	tweets	It's so funny cause Cooper's going to go farther than the people who bully her
fear	tweets	@casillasbreanna awe thanks girl 😊😊
fear	tweets	Can't start a good day without a cup of tea! \n\n #tea  #day #goodday
fear	tweets	Thoroughly enjoying AHS tonight. #ahs  #americanhorrorstory
fear	tweets	should I #start posting #photos?
fear	tweets	I can be so shy but once I come out of my shell that's it 😂
fear	tweets	@BelieveInBlue18 awe thanks! Couldn't be doing it without all your help and support and that amazing encouragement!💕😘🙌🏻
fear	tweets	My view of the human being is as a dynamic expression of the Cosmos we exist within #humanism #awe
fear	tweets	my mom recorded nightmare before Christmas for me 😍😍😍 I LOVE IT 💕
fear	tweets	@Sopp97 sorry to upset u madam.If you have got any queries don't hesitate to contact our PR department.In the meantime do you fancy a beer?
fear	tweets	@Marissa_Frost @NevAmore_MFC awe I love you twooo!!! come adventure with me someday!
fear	tweets	Ha! @mquirk @joshuahoodbooks Got your book after our 'meeting' at the Starbucks in NOLA. If Josh says it's terrific, I'm all in.
fear	tweets	@Zen1dfabflake You are all our angelic comrades! #flutter
fear	tweets	Lets start there
fear	tweets	When you make a great tasting shake and no words can describe it!😃👌🏻 #shake #herbalifenutrition #tastesogood #nowords
fear	tweets	It's simple I get after two shots of espresso 'Grande, decaf, 130 degrees soy americano with extra foam' #barista
fear	tweets	I polished my nails, but can't find the polish remover. It look like a 3yr old polished my nails lol
fear	tweets	#rocklandcounty get to ravis in suffern, ny. Great food, new #chef, terrific atmosphere. Say 'twitter' to server and get free #appetizer
fear	tweets	When you make a great tasting shake and no words can describe it!😃👌🏻  #herbalifenutrition #tastesogood #nowords
fear	tweets	Jeans with fake pockets
fear	tweets	Georgia Tech's Secondary is as soft as a marshmallow.
fear	tweets	@bothsocial Thanks for the follow! Hope you’re having a terrific day!
fear	tweets	Can't start a good day without a cup of tea! \n\n#tea #start #day #goodday
fear	tweets	@veroicone my typical shake is ~100g banana, 1c almond milk, 1tbsp chia and protein. Sometimes I add PB2 or ice or other fruit.
fear	tweets	i've been rooting for him since the beginning  #BB18
fear	tweets	@TayerleLyle awe thank you so much Lyle!! You're the best!😀😀
fear	tweets	Don't #worry if you're not the best , if you are doing something you #love , you're heading in right direction ...
fear	tweets	That goes the
fear	tweets	Pull over #tonight and make your car #shake 😋💦
fear	tweets	@Melanie_Pierce @HunterHayes awe ain't he a sweetheart? He's adorable! 😊😍❤️
fear	tweets	@FraserKeegan just had a steak pie supper
fear	tweets	@annalisewrobel_ awe thank you so much love 💕
fear	tweets	Omg he kissed her🙈  #w
sadness	tweets	@1johndes ball watching &amp; Rojo'd header was equally dreadful!!
sadness	tweets	A pessimist is someone who, when opportunity knocks, complains about the noise #mikeshumor
sadness	tweets	A .500 season is all I'm looking for at this point. #depressing #royals
sadness	tweets	Stars, when you shine,\nYou know how I feel.\nScent of the pine, \nYou know how I feel.\nFreedom is mine,\nI know how I feel.\nI'm feelin' good.
sadness	tweets	All I want to do is watch some netflix but I am stuck here in class. #depressing
sadness	tweets	Buddha doesn't possess enough power to deliver you from your affliction!
sadness	tweets	Donating to Trump puts a damper on a very exciting @Cubs season. Really bad look, Ricketts family.
sadness	tweets	Hello my dear friends, I will be back online this Friday night. I miss you! #sober #sobriety #recovery
sadness	tweets	@ccrago It was dreadful, even after he met the Catfish he still thought it was her!
sadness	tweets	watching this uni reveal is so depressing i miss stingrays :(
sadness	tweets	Public products: high downhearted price tag consumer survey sum and substance: OVth
sadness	tweets	Wow just watched Me Before You and it was seriously one of the most depressing movies of my life
sadness	tweets	@kayleighmcenany  @DonaldJTrumpJr Is that really all you can offer for those who sacrifice daily to keep you safe...? @kayleighmcenany #sad
sadness	tweets	@kayleighmcenany  @DonaldJTrumpJr Is that really all you can offer for those who sacrifice daily to keep you safe...? @kayleighmcenany
sadness	tweets	“Dyslexia is the affliction of a frozen genius.”― Stephen Richards
sadness	tweets	@OHSOVICTORIOUS_ @FaZeAdapt We all seen it coming.. it's sad. But her Instagram comments on her pics are funny. Adapts fans blew it up 😂😂😂
sadness	tweets	[ @HedgehogDylan ] *she would frown a bit, folding her arms* 'why is it that every time I'm in need of assistance someone expects a lil **
sadness	tweets	@abra @abra @abra what're you doing to my ears? To my soul?! #GoodMusic #melancholy
sadness	tweets	I feel like an appendix. I don't have a purpose.  #depressed  #alone #lonely #broken  #cry #hurt #crying #life
sadness	tweets	Might go on @RadioX tomorrow to hopefully win a new car. My current one stinks of gone off milk. #grim
sadness	tweets	Season 3 and Charlie is still a prick! #lost
sadness	tweets	@pmo100 @5liveSport .....I heard talk something is a miss. He looks weary.
sadness	tweets	If Angelina Jolie can't keep a man no one can. Today we mourn because Love is dead
sadness	tweets	@DxfyingGrxvity - frustration, looking up at Elphaba in a frown of aggravation. Her high pitched voice was growing more and more --
sadness	tweets	@CovinoandRich just heard back2back,  guess that's why they call it the blues &amp; she's got the look, but I can only sing tickle sacks version
sadness	tweets	SOBRIETY®   trying to make being sober fashionable….can it be done ? #zeroalcohol #soberoctober #clubsoda #nomorehangovers #sober
sadness	tweets	@StaceyDavidson_ You're a thief and a liberal mope, investigated by the financial services board for theft of govt retirement funds. THIEF
sadness	tweets	This shit hurting my heart 😪 that's how serious it is .
sadness	tweets	Before the year ends I'll probably get master 12s or flu games, true blues, and space jams.
sadness	tweets	@AnjiDunlap droop in leggings? Are they wearing XXXL?
sadness	tweets	@trashcami this cured my depression
sadness	tweets	This world has some serious issues we should all go to therapy
sadness	tweets	If I had a little bit of extra money I would blow the whole paycheck and go to one of the two of @KygoMusic's concerts in LA. #serious
sadness	tweets	@kempicepoland don't think he did, and he didn't have the rucksack or laptop in his possession, murky business, on that note I'm away to bed
sadness	tweets	MC: what are you listen to these days?\nBogum: these days I feel gloomy, I listen to ccm (spiritual song) often.\n\nChurch oppa mode. :)
sadness	tweets	It feel like we lost a family member🙄😂
sadness	tweets	My life went from happy to unhappy..
sadness	tweets	you are on an endless journey of figuring yourself out; don't be discouraged when you don't know who you are yet.
sadness	tweets	On bedrest since I got out of the hospital. U find in unopened beer.. what do I do. Pour that shit out! No alcohol at all for me #sober
sadness	tweets	@LeePorter94 @DomMcGovern_ hi Dom I saw u at Notts county away, looking for 1 mufc away ticket will pay #blues
sadness	tweets	@LeePorter94 @DomMcGovern_ hi Dom I saw u at Notts county away, looking for 1 mufc away ticket will pay
sadness	tweets	A3: But chronic sadness may mean there are underlying issues than getting sad occassionally over a particular issue (2/2) #mhchat
sadness	tweets	Don't depress yourself by comparing yourself. No comparisons.
sadness	tweets	Folk Band 'Thistle Down' will be replaced by 'The Paul Edwards Quartet' at Laurel Bank Park Sat 24 11am - 3pm due to ill health #jazz #blues
sadness	tweets	Folk Band 'Thistle Down' will be replaced by 'The Paul Edwards Quartet' at Laurel Bank Park Sat 24 11am - 3pm due to ill health #jazz
sadness	tweets	@GRIPLIKEAVICE_ I wouldn't mind if it didn't you know, threaten my job when I disagree. Puts a damper on things.
sadness	tweets	@FFBren @CDCarter13 included for maximum #sadness
sadness	tweets	@Barcabhoy1 Of course not. Didn't sink his studs into a knee like Forrester
sadness	tweets	Soooo badly want to dye my hair dark but have never been dark before soooo torn 😭😭😭
sadness	tweets	@Eeevah14 don't I know it, try not to fret my sweet little pupper
sadness	tweets	im thoroughly in love w zen and jumin and i dont think id even have the patience for either of them irl im old and weary
sadness	tweets	@Virgin_TrainsEC I feel for the conductor tonight, he's obviously taken grief over the last few weeks, he sounds weary of apologising!
sadness	tweets	@GolfStrat out of Rory starts. What would your B group look like w/o him? Hideki and Walker, and throw Reed or Knox on the pine?
sadness	tweets	HATE that there's ads for #depression &amp; #mentalhealth #meds. That's ONLY something your doctor can determine. Everyone is different. #ssri
sadness	tweets	Rooney is 5 yards off the pace in a League Cup game against Northampton Town. Let that sink in for a moment. #MUFC
sadness	tweets	I can't WAIT to go to work tomorrow with a high as fuck fever. [sarcasm]\nHopefully I'll feel better tomorrow.\nBut I doubt it. #pessimism
sadness	tweets	Don't be disheartened if you didn't get the cards you wanted, it's not the end of the world......E-Eh...? Y-You want me to cheer you up?
sadness	tweets	amateur author Twitter might be the most depressing thing I've ever seen
sadness	tweets	yesterday i finished watching penny dreadful and from all the beautiful things i saw one question remains: were the writers HIM's fans?
sadness	tweets	We are about a little over an hour away! We will arrive soon, do not fret!
sadness	tweets	Should of stayed in Dubai 😞
sadness	tweets	Chalk dance notation entree manchester inasmuch as corinthian products that discourage drag branding: ARwuEVfqv
sadness	tweets	It's basically a dead skin peel which sounds grim. But it literally gets rid of so much dead skin from your pores.
sadness	tweets	aaahhhh! a little @OtisRedding to soothe the soul. #music
sadness	tweets	aaahhhh! a little @OtisRedding to soothe the soul. #music #blues
sadness	tweets	Remembering those day when u still did'nt know kpop n thinking about how sad your life was without it - Kpop fan
sadness	tweets	and for inconsolable Oxford academics - 'Brussels should just ignore the #Brexit vote and tell the UK it can't leave the EU....ever....wah'
sadness	tweets	@xOffWithMyHeadx They've officially said all the episodes left (so future 12 and despair 11 and 12) will be delayed.
sadness	tweets	340:892 All with weary task fordone.\nNow the wasted brands do glow,\nWhilst the scritch-owl, scritching loud,\n#AMNDBots
sadness	tweets	Common app just randomly logged me out as I was writing the last part of my college essay and lost all of it 😭😭😭
sadness	tweets	I'd rather laugh with the rarest genius, in beautiful alliance with his own being, where he kept his sadness. #melancholy
sadness	tweets	If you #invest in my new #film I will stop asking you to invest in my new film. #concessions #crime #despair #shortsightedness #celebrities
sadness	tweets	Just watched Django Unchained, Other people may frown, but I titter in delight! 2/5
sadness	tweets	@KeithOlbermann depressing how despicable Trump, with no policies, campaigning on bigotry &amp; rancour can be so close, evil immoral disaster
sadness	tweets	My 2 teens sons just left in the car to get haircuts. I'm praying up a storm that they make it home safely!! #sad #TerenceCrutcher
sadness	tweets	My 2 teens sons just left in the car to get haircuts. I'm praying up a storm that they make it home safely!!  #TerenceCrutcher
sadness	tweets	HartRamsey'sUPLIFT If you're still discouraged it means you're listening to the wrong voices &amp; looking to the wrong source.Look to the LORD!
sadness	tweets	@AmontanaW I nearly dropped my phone into the sink HAHAHAHA
sadness	tweets	Whenever I'm feeling sad I will listen to monsta x and hug my teddy bear and I always feel better
sadness	tweets	@spamvicious I've just found out it's Candice and not Candace. She can pout all she likes for me 😍
sadness	tweets	@British_Airways In your Concorde Lounge in Terminal 7 JFK. So saddened to have to say, service so far is dismal. Don't expect a reply.
sadness	tweets	#Facebook is #depressing without even being there. Two apps want it for logging in, I have missed at least two interesting #events and they
sadness	tweets	BTW, offended policy wonks, H only had one real proposal: eliminate subminimum wage. Probably good, but might discourage hiring of disabled.
sadness	tweets	I believe the work I do is meaningful; my clients would agree but at the end of the day, I feel like a pawn, lost in this chaotic world.
sadness	tweets	Refuse to let myself get discouraged.
sadness	tweets	@yukkikuma_cos cheer up, luv. your face is alot prettier when you're not frowning. &lt;3
sadness	tweets	@MHChat sadness with resentment is the past, sadness with fear is the future. try to live in the now #MHchat
sadness	tweets	Pro-lifers are condemning #MenForChoice - but I haven't seen any of you criticize the dismal American foster care/adoption system.
sadness	tweets	I love having such a big family. There's never a dull moment in my house 😂
sadness	tweets	@The40Bar See you all October 8th. @WreckinSO is ready to tear it up #keeptalkin #wreckinso #the40 #brandonmanitoba #country #rock #blues
sadness	tweets	r U scared to present in front of the class? severe anxiety... whats That r u sad sometimes?? go get ur depression checked out IMEDIATELY!!!
sadness	tweets	What a grim night #GetTheFireLit 🔥
sadness	tweets	@BitcoinBelle @pamelawjd Start mournful then kick into major key in last verse where good guys win? (Or just change words in existing song?)
sadness	tweets	@xaninaany I'm so serious DM me I'll tell u more
sadness	tweets	Time for some despair #SDR3 #despair #fuckthisanime
sadness	tweets	@leighsteinberg April 25th, 2010 for me. Keep up the good work!! #sober #prouder
sadness	tweets	but losing these games are the worst, you end up feeling a mixture of anger and sadness and shame and anxiety and it lasts for days
sadness	tweets	@CCGaryRoberts community policing!!!! What's that?? #lost
sadness	tweets	It's easy to #fall #asleep in class, but hard to in bed. #True #sober #whileyouweresleeping #insomnia #TeamFollowBack #RockTheReTweet
sadness	tweets	It's easy to #fall #asleep in class, but hard to in bed. #True  #whileyouweresleeping #insomnia #TeamFollowBack #RockTheReTweet
sadness	tweets	😑😑😑&lt;---- that moment you finish a Netflix series and have nothing else to watch. #depression
sadness	tweets	@Beakmoo hmmmm...you may have a point... I thought Twitter had got dull 😂. LAMINATION
sadness	tweets	I just got asked to hoco over instagram dm bc someone lost a bet. Love the maturity of the people in my grade!!!!
sadness	tweets	@JensenAckles @jarpad whatever Sam is holding on your tee looks like it's got a droop on 😂
sadness	tweets	When the surfer girl and i  don't speak the same language anymore.. #justsaying #sadness
sadness	tweets	@NikeSupport ok, thats it. After 2 weeks not being able to sign in, time to move on &amp; find another app. I will strongly discourage NikeRun
sadness	tweets	@AriZernial @NesquikMills don't let him discourage you Z! That's one of the best ideas yet!
sadness	tweets	Our soldiers in war zones are held to a higher level of rules of engagement than our police officers. #sad
sadness	tweets	Our soldiers in war zones are held to a higher level of rules of engagement than our police officers.
sadness	tweets	My nephews n cousins are nowhere near bad guys, but they could be killed @ any moment by a cop that thought they were bc of their color #sad
sadness	tweets	My nephews n cousins are nowhere near bad guys, but they could be killed @ any moment by a cop that thought they were bc of their color
sadness	tweets	Write drunk. Edit Sober. \nForget to save. Wake hungover.\n#amwriting #sober
sadness	tweets	If someone keeps #laughing at you, don't #fret  . At least u r giving #happiness .'\n#quotes #quotestoliveby
sadness	tweets	Back in the big time after selection last night. Absolutely buzzing. Bring on the roaches #SG16 #kickittomehigh #nswgaa #blues #statevstate
sadness	tweets	Headed to MDW w/ layover in SLC. Got off for food. Wrong move. Bailed on my food &amp; barely made it. @SouthwestAir #WannaGetAway #Contest #sad
sadness	tweets	Headed to MDW w/ layover in SLC. Got off for food. Wrong move. Bailed on my food &amp; barely made it. @SouthwestAir #WannaGetAway #Contest
sadness	tweets	When you burst out crying alone and u realize that no one truly knows how unhappy you really are because you don't want anyone to know
sadness	tweets	Don't ever grow weary doing good....Don't just see the headlines; look at the trend lines for hope.' @billclinton #CGI2016
sadness	tweets	@ThomasHCrown @laurakfillault As a historic evangelical, I wonder if the Donatists had a point? What dreadful clergy in my fmr. circles.
sadness	tweets	@InLuvWithAGhost I'm frowning at you intensely until you watch plastic memories.
sadness	tweets	What's the worst affliction that you or someone you know ever convinced yourself you had?
sadness	tweets	I get so much PUSSY\nP - panic attacks \nU - uncontrollable anxiety \nS - suicidal fantasies \nS - sadness \nY - yearning for death
sadness	tweets	@j__a__i I actually understand it for plumbers etc. Wire would get in the way while under a sink
sadness	tweets	Im having a real life conundrum cuz i cant find a good spot for my mini hoop and its really starting to depress me
sadness	tweets	My heartbeat is forever stumbling on memories of things past. #longing #loss #shape #form #sadness
sadness	tweets	6 might be a serious number, but 10 sounds better. Wild card race!!
sadness	tweets	Urgent need to get a new job. The constant gloom of my current one is getting a bit ridiculous now.
sadness	tweets	John and his 'magic box' #lost
sadness	tweets	It's really sad when you can't order goods from china and the likes because of Internet fraudsters... What's this government really doing.
sadness	tweets	Can it be 10 PM so I can sulk in my tub while listening to Lana
sadness	tweets	I can't wait for you to listen to my new single 'Mystery' and my new album😋. #newmusic #newsingle #newalbum #2016 #popmusic #dark
sadness	tweets	Candice's pout is gonna take someone eye out mate! #GBBO
sadness	tweets	The pine colada starburst nasty. Don't @ me
sadness	tweets	How's the new #BatmanTelltaleSeries? Looks good but I'm growing weary of this #gaming style... #Batman
sadness	tweets	@bolain_branden @GrimsToyShow grim should find broken Matt hardy because he can delete everything lol
sadness	tweets	@SentinalsMom *Baal dashed forward, boosted forward by her power of flight. Her sword pointed at Void, meant to stop just short of her--
sadness	tweets	i am about to find the sadness in graham's lyrics
sadness	tweets	I told my therapist that I'm on the dance team and now she's unhappy with me.
sadness	tweets	@mar_de_palabras But I do think we need to experience a bit madness &amp; despair too. This is the stuff that makes us human.
sadness	tweets	Texans and Astros both shut out tonight. Houston, we're back to normal. #texans #Astros #sadness #losers
sadness	tweets	are you feeling horribly depressed and despondent about life and your future' - @lauraroyden always knows just what to say
sadness	tweets	@space_gayz high fantasy , i feel like you could make a melancholy college age slice of life thing work too
sadness	tweets	Over 70% of social sharing is dark &amp; over 50% of web traffic comes from #darksocial. @colinzalewski #LIFTSocial
sadness	tweets	At least I don't have a guy trying to discourage me anymore in what I want to do he will never become anything worth contributing to society
sadness	tweets	@TheBenNatan szn 3 &gt;&gt;&gt; szn 1 &gt;&gt;&gt; szn 2. Just to warn you. Don't let szn 2 discourage you.
sadness	tweets	@nigeriaLNG @TonyAttah #lestweforget 3 yrs on, 2013 Graduate Trainee recruitment not concluded. #disappointed #weary however  #wewait
sadness	tweets	Go help the cause.@plantingaseed.net. #recovery  #sober #addiction
sadness	tweets	@MariamVeiszadeh it's getting so close in your poll so many ignorant ppl. #depressing #painful something needs to change #BeTheChange ? How?
sadness	tweets	@TicciKasie1 //this is sadly what my history teacher talked about why the fuck do I remember that?!
sadness	tweets	Defining yourself in terms of opposition, i.e. the clouded mirror phenomena, is almost always a mistake.
sadness	tweets	It serves a gloomy higher than the wolves of the village
sadness	tweets	Finally watched #hungergamesmockingjay2 this morning, sadly I feel a little disappointed #toomuchhype
sadness	tweets	@TheCatCampbell I too am Ravenclaw. #sadness #shouldhavebeenhufflepuff
sadness	tweets	Now I'm going to sulk again for a week until #OurGirl is back on! @michkeegan and @benaldridge07 are the best! @OurGirlWatch
sadness	tweets	@BokuNoGio AND his momma was worse than Tony sopranos momma #wow #sad #history #major
sadness	tweets	@BokuNoGio AND his momma was worse than Tony sopranos momma #wow  #history #major
sadness	tweets	@TrueRyuga I tore my MLC playing football in HS. Knees are serious business. Take care of them! Lemme know if you need anything.
sadness	tweets	@MlaStandard The depth that you've sunk to. You're readership deserves more.
sadness	tweets	when season 13 of greys anatomy premieres today. it you're only on season 7 #sadness :(
sadness	tweets	@thixotropic No. Was so sudden. Hasn't sunk in yet. With Leo I knew it was coming.
sadness	tweets	Long day, kind tweets, our melancholy, @DownFrontArtist defeats.
sadness	tweets	Dream show how cisco 642-188 pdf melancholy: aHid
sadness	tweets	Not a great start but good comeback from the boys to earn a point. Bring on Saturday #blues
sadness	tweets	Living with #depression doesn't mean you must be defeated by it\nevery day's a new day and yesterday doesn't decide what today looks like :-)
sadness	tweets	@Magrove86Mark @clareftballnews jersey gloves?  #dark
sadness	tweets	Been a while since I been sober. This life can be so hard
sadness	tweets	Just reached 10k followers - WOW - thanks blues #mcfc #ctid
sadness	tweets	When mine pass, I know I'll be inconsolable &amp; devastated. For a while.
sadness	tweets	I'm throwing myself straight into American Horror Story so I don't have time to grieve
sadness	tweets	*Sigh* #depression #saddness #afterellen #shitsucks
sadness	tweets	@rosalilium I'm wearing all black tomorrow to mourn. 😭💔
sadness	tweets	eun: im really unhappy with this and i dont like her like that pls dont\n\nyall: okay but SHE loves HIM
sadness	tweets	@yesnicksearcy @counterparty Although I don't expect a trumpie to understand the difference between real things and pretend things. #sad
sadness	tweets	@yesnicksearcy @counterparty Although I don't expect a trumpie to understand the difference between real things and pretend things.
sadness	tweets	You can tell the camp isn't happy purely through Bojan and Muni.\n\nBoth normally fab guys, yet completely dejected. Something isn't right..
sadness	tweets	Migraine hangover all day. Stood up to do dishes and now I'm exhausted again. GAD, depression &amp; chronic pain #anxiety #depression #pain
sadness	tweets	Migraine hangover all day. Stood up to do dishes and now I'm exhausted again. GAD, depression &amp; chronic pain #anxiety  #pain
sadness	tweets	No sober weekend 🙂🙂🙂
sadness	tweets	One point: DSP claims YTers lost half their viewership in 2012 if they weren't using direct capture. That's when the search changes happened
sadness	tweets	@JessiMcCree Gabriel would eventually start frowning, gaining conciousness. Which was apparently really painful by how tears formed in the--
sadness	tweets	No pessimist ever discovered the secret of the stars,or sailed to an uncharted land,or opened a new doorway for the human spirit.-H.Keller
sadness	tweets	for an lgbt person to tell someone else that how they identify isn't valid is so sad and against everything we should stand for
sadness	tweets	What we think, we become. -Buddha #recovery #addiction #sober #sobriety
sadness	tweets	So drunk me hid my keys very well sober me couldn't find it anywhere
sadness	tweets	@Mets @JdeGrom19 I'm depress now
sadness	tweets	@mandyjohnson I'll be honest.. I hope that annoying Southern bint with the 'look at me' pout goes out this week! Selasi #FTW
sadness	tweets	The last few weeks have been dreadful. opening up of old #wounds. the #gossip of others/evil that spill from thier lips #melancholy #sadnnes
sadness	tweets	@onefumi oh I see. I've seen so many people mourn the loss that I was surprised to see your tweet. I suppose same old here in SA
sadness	tweets	@downseung I'm sorry about your loss... no one should ever give you shit for taking your time to mourn. No matter how long it takes.
sadness	tweets	#HRmanagement must discourage the expediency factor from encroaching on the rolling out of a credible #workplaceviolenceprevention policy.
sadness	tweets	@BeenishParvez salaams ma'am, how r u ma'am? May ALLAH protect u from sadness, illness, harm &amp; nazr-e-bad. AAMEEN. Stay Blessed ma'am.
sadness	tweets	When I walk in darkness of despondency, Sc.verses I've memorized shine a light in my heart. Ex: Lam 3:22-25 #despondency
sadness	tweets	@LdhranOusby @RobHarris inclined to think that 'documentary' did him more harm than good. If not I despair of people's critical faculties.
sadness	tweets	Thank you @Pret 4 giving me a free coffee for bringing my reusable cup to the airport because it was 1st time you saw one. But #depressing
sadness	tweets	Ok it really just sunk in that I'm seeing the 🐐 in a few hours.. wow 🙄🙄
sadness	tweets	I don't care what shape the blues are in. \nWe owe them a fucking hiding. \nLong overdue on that front.
sadness	tweets	it's sad when you talk to someone about ya past n how it fucked you up and then they do the same thing like people really don't have hearts
sadness	tweets	final vestiges of my 90's childhood were just dashed on the shoals of hearing a house cover of Tracy Chapman's 'fast car' at the dayjob
sadness	tweets	@naynay_whores im pretty sure cause ever since saturday ive just been super sad lol
sadness	tweets	I am going to make it my life's mission to discourage anyone from using @CapitalOne. They will rob you blind
sadness	tweets	Luckily I was helped by some good people. And they also managed to free me of my depression. Unfortunately it only lasted a little while.
sadness	tweets	@ashleighjessica @zacflint1 I'd give that pout the firm D
sadness	tweets	Most days, I don't know what my heart beats for. #depression
sadness	tweets	Going off reports on Sky, Stoke played ok tonight. Think i'll stay off the messageboard tonight though -it will be grim on there :/
sadness	tweets	Overwhelming sadness.  This too shall pass.  #lonley #startingover
sadness	tweets	Overwhelming sadness.  This too shall pass. #lost #lonley #startingover
sadness	tweets	@HoggyBear95 the bantz are absolutely top notch, inconsolable I was when I realised
sadness	tweets	I mourn. ha..r / ambe was ruined. what was once an ongoing shitpost about Tony's crimes was hijacked by not so vaguely racist memers
sadness	tweets	So depressing to watch news, today out of 100 bullet news 10 were of rape! What's wrong with people #india #shameless #depressing
sadness	tweets	@MarianKeyes the pout tips me over the edge. I am most definitely AGIN. Who the feic bakes with full make up and boots with heels!!!!
sadness	tweets	I'm wearing yellow today to bring a little sunshine to this gloomy day #yourewelcome
sadness	tweets	I look at some of the average players that play at the min and pine Nani, Rafael , RVP ,
sadness	tweets	Hoping to hear some serious @DonnieTrumpet tonight
sadness	tweets	We're in contained depression. Only new economic engine is #Sustainability, say Joel @makower + @markmykleby @ #VERGEcon. #NewGrandStrategy
sadness	tweets	@ShannonBeador we know the truth about her, the public is figuring it out. Her words mean nothing.  #unhappy #mean #troubled #vile #bully
sadness	tweets	@PriceSjrw5614 @Ren102e906 @slb42jcb @swoozyqyah THEN you do what you can and then BLOCK them, they're trying to discourage us
sadness	tweets	@LeahSKahn honestly. All I care about is Selasi not messing this up. His lackadaisical attitude isn't good for danishes.
sadness	tweets	@BBCTomEnglish @TimesSport And the dreadful Franglaise.
sadness	tweets	Im so unhappy
sadness	tweets	@punjabified porkistan lost terribly in 65 because of american intervation to talk we stopped
sadness	tweets	Are you #serious that #fredsirieix lives in Peckham......South London's own #Love Guru(big up)
sadness	tweets	hate to see y'all frown but I'd rather see him smiling 💕✨
sadness	tweets	@LindaFrum sadly, at least 3 more years of this. At what point will even the low info selfie lovers who voted for them say enough is enough
sadness	tweets	@ChipotleTweets Gabe the worst part is I can't get hot status this month because there's no chipotle near enough to my campus #sadness
sadness	tweets	everything in the dream stayed there
sadness	tweets	Candace &amp; her pout are getting right on my tits #GBBO
sadness	tweets	California sissified pages: ruling class separation in passage to dispirit attestative alphanumeric code: WyrdljPyu
sadness	tweets	so probably hunger and depression and dissociating equals a weird time anything else
sadness	tweets	@reikimuse @MHChat I am beyond the sadness point. Have done it inside out. I live with CPTSD and BPD  I can't always do the pity party
sadness	tweets	This night, room polluted with syringes, notebooks and shadows moving, this kind of night! Away melancholy, away!
sadness	tweets	@reecetop10 Bk to 1 up top pack midfield Stifle any flair we possess kill any entertainers #dull #reshuffle #predictable #slow #average
sadness	tweets	Getting so excited for @ClearwaterJazz 2016!! We play the main stage Sunday Oct. 16 at 3:30!! #jazzholiday #riesbrothers #rock  #jam
sadness	tweets	Getting so excited for @ClearwaterJazz 2016!! We play the main stage Sunday Oct. 16 at 3:30!! #jazzholiday #riesbrothers #rock #blues #jam
sadness	tweets	Really planned on making videos this week. Then. A tv died, phone broke, truck died, #depression took over. I'm wondering what I did 2 karma
sadness	tweets	Removal regardless of cost a lamentable answer: ajvKSK
sadness	tweets	God just replaced my sadness with laughter, can't go the whole day sad ...
sadness	tweets	Need advice on how to get out of this rut!!!!  #needmotivation
sadness	tweets	Need advice on how to get out of this rut!!!! #depressing #needmotivation
sadness	tweets	I feel like I am drowning. #depression #anxiety #falure #worthless
sadness	tweets	@DatGuydARK I wouldn't fret. There's too many opportunities in life to worry about one not working out.
sadness	tweets	Candice's standing pout face aggravates me every week
sadness	tweets	I think learning classical or ancient Japanese might help me get myself permanently out of depression. I sometimes suffer from sudden
sadness	tweets	we never taste happiness in perfection, our most fortunate successes are mixed with sadness. #success #sadness #perfection #fortunate #mixed
sadness	tweets	we never taste happiness in perfection, our most fortunate successes are mixed with sadness. #success  #perfection #fortunate #mixed
sadness	tweets	Anybody know a good place to book a show in #Montreal on short but not super-short notice? #punkrock #postpunk #blues
sadness	tweets	Once you've accepted your flaws, no one can use them against you - @GRRMspeaking #quote #mentalhealth #psychology #depression #anxiety
sadness	tweets	@MessYourself why? Do you have depression?
sadness	tweets	@hamzakhawaja99 just die depression.
sadness	tweets	@othrcarl @IX_SW @purenift I'm sadly not, I'm just being smutty
sadness	tweets	It hasn't sunk in that I'm meeting the twins
sadness	tweets	In other news. My legs hurt. #running #5kin26mins #dreadful #flatfeet
sadness	tweets	“My friend do you fly away now? To a world that abhors you and I? All that awaits you is a somber morrow No matter where the winds may blow”
sadness	tweets	Happy Birthday, LOST! / #lost #dharmainitiative #12years #22september2004 #oceanic815
sadness	tweets	@Mattwinton1 Your foot is frowning.
sadness	tweets	@marisa_enbot Being with you makes me somewhat gloomy.
sadness	tweets	Sigh. I got a B- .. #depressing
sadness	tweets	@CNN : It's not Fox News, it's Fox Propaganda Network, they're so lost in their lies, that they can't tell the truth, if it hit them in face
sadness	tweets	@MHChat Childood experiences can  leave you with permanent deep sadness as adult  it can underlie everything #MHChat
sadness	tweets	Wrinkles should merely hide where frown have been.  - Mark Twain
sadness	tweets	Why can't you just be mine. #forlorn
sadness	tweets	#COINCIDENCE??? When you turn on the TV, etc.&amp; listen &amp; watch, the objective is to #CaptureYourMind with #fear &amp; #depression. #FindGODNow!!!
sadness	tweets	I'm not the type to flee from adversity nor does it discourage me. I'll always stand strong in the paint
sadness	tweets	Cops chillin on pine lakes
sadness	tweets	F'n morons u23 SMFH can't just be lackadaisical
sadness	tweets	Sometimes it takes #sadness to know happiness, #noise to appreciate #silence and absence to value presence.
sadness	tweets	@rosalarian i hate post con blues! But i avoided the plague too yay!! Yay constant hand sanitizer!!!
sadness	tweets	Go follow 'juspopmolly' on snapchat that hoe sitting on the sink right now @Cocaineandtacos
sadness	tweets	The new @chaseandstatus song is mega 💥 reminds me of @SundownUK #blues
sadness	tweets	#AutumnalEquinox the nights are drawing in, what a great time to look at putting up some new #lights #dark #showroom #news #wirral
sadness	tweets	The weather changed from sunny and bright to gloomy just in time to match my afternoon mood. 😒
sadness	tweets	@p0stcap I've still been trying to sort through it all, but I suppose I also shouldn't have had such high expectations. #sadness
sadness	tweets	How do you help someone with #depression who doesn't believe they have it and doesn't trust therapists?
sadness	tweets	A pretty dejected FanCam on the way. #SCFC #TBPTV
sadness	tweets	Ffs clan... seriously never been so disheartened
sadness	tweets	Fam what seems more fun for a photo booth: being able to instantly post to Twitter or having to wait till sober to see the hot mess
sadness	tweets	ACT 4 #anxiety &amp; #depression group. @livingwellihc beginning Mon October 17 for 6 weeks. Contact me to register now! #mindfulness #Halifax
sadness	tweets	Rooney = whipping boy. #mufc #sad
sadness	tweets	Rooney = whipping boy. #mufc
sadness	tweets	Nothing else could possibly put a damper on my day other than doing X-rays on someone with kickinnnnn ass breath 😿
sadness	tweets	My cell won't hold a charge 😢 #sadness So should I...
sadness	tweets	Do you know how much it hurts to see you best friend sad?
sadness	tweets	I am often disturbed by what some people find appropriate or acceptable. It's not funny nor cute that adults find this stuff humorous. #sad
sadness	tweets	I am often disturbed by what some people find appropriate or acceptable. It's not funny nor cute that adults find this stuff humorous.
sadness	tweets	ok yes I get it as much as the next guy -- bikes blues &amp; bbq is frustrating &amp; loud!!! but these ppl are traveling from all over to come --
sadness	tweets	The @Orioles are in contention and hosting @RedSox nation and Camden is empty #sad
sadness	tweets	The @Orioles are in contention and hosting @RedSox nation and Camden is empty
sadness	tweets	The two Brians, @BlackEyedNBlues &amp; @onthehorn500, also known as the Nigella Lawsons of #blues &amp; #pizza.
sadness	tweets	Ive felt surprisingly gloomy about my bad scouts today :'D but i recognize that it's all just RNG and yeah I didnt spend that many gems
sadness	tweets	@loueezecee I don't know how much more of that bloody pout I can take!!
sadness	tweets	I hope a goal comes soon on either side. Otherwise there is a serious threat of a dull and frustrating game. #COYS
sadness	tweets	@John_Hanna he has become so dreary, also, yes...
sadness	tweets	Usually I'm not one to rush colder weather but this year I'm so ready for hot coffee, dark lippies, scarves, sweaters, &amp; boots 🍂👢☕️💄
sadness	tweets	Today you visited me in my dreams and even though you aren't physically gone I still mourn you
sadness	tweets	I wonder if the #wolfcreek TV show is sponsored by the anti-tourist board of Australia to discourage visitors? #stayathome #dontvisit
sadness	tweets	@Theresa_Talbot @fleurrbie Haha...sorry about the dreadful puns... I need to get out more....I've been cooped up lately...
sadness	tweets	A MOMENT:\nIf you kill it in the spirit, it will die in the natural!!!'-@PRINCESSTAYE  #murder #suicide #depression #racism #pride
sadness	tweets	A MOMENT:\nIf you kill it in the spirit, it will die in the natural!!!'-@PRINCESSTAYE #murder #suicide  #racism #pride
sadness	tweets	I know few will mourn the loss of Stitch's Great Escape, but...see, THIS is the kind of cost-cutting at parks I really don't care for.
sadness	tweets	Who need #beats ? #instrumentals #serious #artists #only 🚨
sadness	tweets	Don King...his actions really sadden me today...the word 'may not' have the same power to all as it once did, I still cringe when i hear it
sadness	tweets	Meghan is teaching the blues in keyboard fundamentals II and all these classical majors are like WTF?!
sadness	tweets	Being at the airport is so depressing.. watching all the loved up couples and cute people coming off holiday,too cute..hurry up November ✈️
sadness	tweets	@FoxNews Very thought provoking &amp; leads one to question what really happened.Very sad for all.
sadness	tweets	Listening to @wdwradio at work is my slice of sunshine in this dreary cube world #9to5life
sadness	tweets	Don't get too close it's dark inside 🌫🌊
sadness	tweets	The bowl on my new food processor broke, @Cuisinart. #sadness.
sadness	tweets	Feeling #gloomy
sadness	tweets	Today: Kudos to Jaime Garcia on a fine outing.     #encouraging. Last Week: Judo to Jaime Garcia for a dismal outing. #discouraging
sadness	tweets	me: tis a dreary day today\nfriend: he's a teenager not Shakespeare's reincarnation \n\nim such a dumbass lol
sadness	tweets	@JBoughton93 he might donate the money but it won't stop shit, pessimist
sadness	tweets	@nytimes media celebrated Don King endorsing #Obama in 08 and 12 now criticize him for endorsing #Trump who wants new Civil Rights era- sad
sadness	tweets	@broadly you should be criminalized for posting a pic of that brown frown.... Get a pic of some jack, or cookies, or diesel, Join up @CNN_Ai
sadness	tweets	@WDWNT #spooky night at #disney #fortwilderness campground #disneyworld #powerfailure #dark
sadness	tweets	@ChristianJMay @CityAM \nConfidence held up... despite constant and continual doom and gloom
sadness	tweets	I might even be on the verge of depression.
sadness	tweets	@TheSGJournal Step 1: Get rid of @LittleStokePark Step 2: Prioritise football Step 3: profit? #depressing
sadness	tweets	When you lose somebody close to your heart you lose yourself as well 💔 #lost
sadness	tweets	When you lose somebody close to your heart you lose yourself as well 💔
sadness	tweets	@BlackToLive Good - cuz that's what Trump is: a fucken 'N'azi. Don King-u havnt sunk this low since u set up Mike Tyson. 2 pathetic Dons.
sadness	tweets	@jamiesonhelen @MarianKeyes all three of my agin's on the pout .
sadness	tweets	But what will complaining, pessimism, regret, and anger get you?
sadness	tweets	Been sober for days lmao
sadness	tweets	i am le depressed i l hate myself xDDdD #sad #depress #loner #emo
sadness	tweets	I want my highlight to be so bright that if I ever get lost and someone is looking for me in the dark, they'll find me.
sadness	tweets	ffs as if tate thought wind in the willows was a serious play, can't wait to see him play a singing badger 😩😂
sadness	tweets	this country is going to go to crap no matter who wins this november, isnt it? The more i learn of both the more despondent i am of future
sadness	tweets	@HonestAndFrank but  @BillCosby drugged and raped those women. At least you and Barb were sober and consenting!!
sadness	tweets	whenever I hear concert postponed I think of dismal ticket sales   green day ?
sadness	tweets	David Gilmour's biggest compliment? B.B. King asked him after a gig if he was born in Mississippi #pinkfloyd #theblues #davidgilmour #blues
sadness	tweets	@OpentheDoorRadi thanks for playing Crock Pot Going #radio #blog #blues #music #indiemusic
sadness	tweets	No #gbbo from us tonight sadly, we've got a date with some nachos @ODEONCinemas #BridgetJonesBaby
sadness	tweets	This has been the most depressing week full of rain ever lol
sadness	tweets	gotta say this n put it out there. whoever u r, u should support other people's decisions n not discourage them...
sadness	tweets	@BigBossPeltonen \nLikewise #death #cutting #despair
sadness	tweets	My producer is mixing and mastering the songs now for #murky #notebook #mixtape\nThe tape will be out soon for free download 🔥🎶💨💯
sadness	tweets	I don't get that my parents literally don't see how unhappy I been lately
sadness	tweets	#recession, #economic #gloom? The brightest #stars shine in the darkest nights! Our #html5 #webdesign rocks! #rtblitz #finovate #wlsb
sadness	tweets	I feel like no one is out there on #Twitter  for me.... can anyone see what I write #sadness #rants
sadness	tweets	I can't pull myself out of depression
sadness	tweets	@andrewmcmeme nah, I asked really insightful teacherly questions so he could write a kickass report of his own. He will, sadly, never know
sadness	tweets	sav tells our mom 'I love you' and she responds 'Oh.' #sad
sadness	tweets	sav tells our mom 'I love you' and she responds 'Oh.'
sadness	tweets	Dying is a very dull, dreary affair. And my advice to you is to have nothing whatever to do with it. ― W. Somerset Maughm
sadness	tweets	I wish I could live in y'all reality where i can grieve over people i never met. To bad i got BROTHERS dying left and right .
sadness	tweets	And btw... I really did stay in bed all day today. #depression I hate being lied to, fuck liars. -w-
sadness	tweets	@DevilsAdvcate @ManUtd absolutely boring.M a big Manchester United fan,  nd its really disappointing to see them play in ths dull boring way
sadness	tweets	Lauren Jauregui makes all my problem dissapear it amazes my sadness. She keeps me strong
sadness	tweets	I get embarrassed at the slightest things and then I'll fret about it all day I hate it
sadness	tweets	How a dad would feel knowing his daughter is getting dashed around for whines in the rave😭
sadness	tweets	tim burton never fails to depress me
sadness	tweets	@BenLeubsdorf @DykstraDame @WSJ idiots are going to sink the economy with free money policies.
sadness	tweets	@Jake_Martin74 Oh and I play it capo 2nd fret in a G position RS
sadness	tweets	I'm allowed to sulk
sadness	tweets	my bls depress the blake
sadness	tweets	Playing at September 21, 2016 at 09:30PM: Demetria Taylor  #blues
sadness	tweets	@faye_catherine happy anger sad melancholy confusion #woodspurge
sadness	tweets	FYI y'all can't mourn or celebrate shawty lo cause y'all ain't played his music since 08'
sadness	tweets	@MHChat if we don't understand how to express our emotions to others, may lead to sadness / loneliness &amp; neg impact on long term mh #MHChat
sadness	tweets	@devrajasmine If you change the dark images both look different, but both look like they are in a forest.
sadness	tweets	@bldmovs sadly beautiful photo.
sadness	tweets	ima kitchen sink
sadness	tweets	I should have stayed at home.
sadness	tweets	Henderson showing that when times are hard he leaves or goes missing #AFLCatsSwans #seenitbefore #lions #blues
sadness	tweets	My son 11 has 128 friends on Facebook and yet is moping around the house complaining he has no one to talk to. I'm right here son
sadness	tweets	Don't get #weary in well doing.\n#Faith #God #prayer
sadness	tweets	We fear not the truth, even if it be gloomy, but its counterfeit.- Berl Katznelson
sadness	tweets	God I give you all my pain mess and stress. Take my heavy load. #amen #stress #mess #pain #depression #sadness
sadness	tweets	All I'm learning about at college atm is Sylvia Plath, Stalin's purges and natural disasters, gloomy af
sadness	tweets	Did you know apples turn brown when a enzyme called polyphenol oxidase reacts with oxygen! Well I do #dull #applefacts 🤓🍏
sadness	tweets	@wiIdfuI we have the same age and you're 1000 times more beautiful than me! #sad 😂
sadness	tweets	hmm somehow twitter feels really depressing, more like negative today...I think I missed something 😕
sadness	tweets	@Cassena13 I know if I wasn't an optimist I would despair.
sadness	tweets	I came to work for no reason 😩🔫\nI could've stayed in bed
sadness	tweets	Not written for African-American\n\nNo refuge could save the hireling and slave\nFrom the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave,
sadness	tweets	@damiandmusic hubby Noah shares this somber thoughtful photo of his one and only Dami. Ponytail, standout highlights beautiful picture, nice
sadness	tweets	So you're unhappy?
sadness	tweets	or when someone tells me I needa smile like excuse me ??? now I'm just frowning even harder are you happy
sadness	tweets	I want to pour all my tears on someone right now. So tired of this #upset #sad
sadness	tweets	I want to pour all my tears on someone right now. So tired of this #upset
sadness	tweets	@OniLink86 @DarekMeridian lmao awe...  #sad
sadness	tweets	@OniLink86 @DarekMeridian lmao awe...
sadness	tweets	@reillygolfpro @RealKidPoker @StacyAcey @WSOPTD no he didn't! They are obviously friends and that clouded his judgement
sadness	tweets	Where are some great places to listen to blues? #nightlife #NightLifeENT #blues #jazz #gatewayarch #stlouis #washingtonave
sadness	tweets	@dlrwills turn that frown upside down buddy 🙃.
sadness	tweets	@patienceinbee @camposanto But I decided to be a bit lackadaisical about getting dressed to get groceries.
sadness	tweets	@pikapies I have many happy memories of the Isle Of Wight.\n...\nBut yeah, sink that shit.
sadness	tweets	@glenberube @DonnaGrantis @idanielsenbass @HannahJWelton watching this again makes me weep tears of joy and tears of sadness that he's gone
sadness	tweets	carry on my wayward son there'll be peace when you are done lay your weary head to rest don't you cry no more
sadness	tweets	@yourKarma Reaching out AGAIN in hope to contact over the technical issues I am having. Your CS is severely lacking. #badkarma #unhappy
sadness	tweets	I love when #girls are busy in teaching how to #pout while taking #selfie in a mall , their desication is immense #women love #perfection
sadness	tweets	@PatBlanchfield so you mean “like Uber but for despair for someone other than the driver'
sadness	tweets	@tysonwaters and @WatersWife 'Being over it.' Why USA has #panicattacks #anxiety #depression and so much medication!
sadness	tweets	@typicalmoony Yes Lia!! Join the dark side!!
sadness	tweets	@phil500 \nSo sadden \nSpunky a beautiful dog\nA sad story a lovely happy\nAn loved dog \nPlay little one have fun you\nare so loved
sadness	tweets	(whisper) I cannot frown.
sadness	tweets	@ananavarro @tcarrels most of Trump supporters have not clue about the meaning of the words they used just like him #sad #nevertrump
sadness	tweets	@ananavarro @tcarrels most of Trump supporters have not clue about the meaning of the words they used just like him  #nevertrump
sadness	tweets	@RobertWesley3 I'm #mad that my brother is #sad ! Feel better bub!
sadness	tweets	Dentist just said to me' I'm going to numb your front lip up so it'll feel as if you've got lips like Pete Burns!...... She was right #pout
sadness	tweets	@haileywiggins_ @flenner_alisha good. Takes more muscles to frown than smile
sadness	tweets	A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity, an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty' -Sir Winston Churchill-
sadness	tweets	The most depressing part of being ill is that your taste goes 😫
sadness	tweets	Penny dreadful 3 temporada
sadness	tweets	@ProSyndicate thanks for replying, I'm ironing my shirt😂 I'd love to meet you and get an autograph but sadly I'm too young to travel.
sadness	tweets	Shantosh: How crazy would it be to walk past and talk to a person everyday never realizing he is suffering from depression or such? …
sadness	tweets	Is it just me or is this a very weird time for the world? #change #enlightenment #gloomy #weird #sigh #imaginepeace #imaginelove #unite
sadness	tweets	@jamiesmart Huh! It's always my fault isn't it &gt;:( #huff #sulk
sadness	tweets	Pussies - In the dark, they're all the same
sadness	tweets	For once I gatherp th strength to not try and drink my pain away. #sober #Fighter #strong #lovely #dreamer
sadness	tweets	@dublinwaltz bts' 화양연화 trilogy MV is my all time fav🙌 quite gloomy but beautiful as well✨
sadness	tweets	The ghost of Stefano reflects on the grim indignity of being murdered by corrupt cops in faux love. #days
sadness	tweets	@againstallaudss @groovydadad @Thelostchild5 @MHChat indeed &amp; is sadness unavoidable? #MHChat
sadness	tweets	Bojack Horseman: the saddest show ever written?? #depression #season1
sadness	tweets	Incredibly shocked and disappointed with @united customer service. Really making me rethink flying with them in the future. #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Too many are on their 'yeah, the thing going on with cops shooting innocent people is sad - but just not in my backyard, so..' #sad #blm
sadness	tweets	Too many are on their 'yeah, the thing going on with cops shooting innocent people is sad - but just not in my backyard, so..'  #blm
sadness	tweets	My encouragement today is my dog while my head is in a fog. #epicfail #depression #feelingfedup #tired #ihaveheardeverything #wondering
sadness	tweets	My encouragement today is my dog while my head is in a fog. #epicfail  #feelingfedup #tired #ihaveheardeverything #wondering
sadness	tweets	Drinkin me some red wine &amp; listening to some fred mcdowell playing the #blues . He did not play no #rocknroll. Fantastic noise  #justsaying
sadness	tweets	Love being made to feel bad about being scared of the dark
sadness	tweets	Is this the Krusty Krab?\n\nNo this is crippling depression
sadness	tweets	Has September been dull? Get #SuperSeptember from Jumia Food as a new user. Order from The Place, Barcelos or Shawarma &amp; Co for 30% off
sadness	tweets	@POCX100 Please don't sulk over your defeat. Come on. Head up!
sadness	tweets	me: i've actually been doing pretty well! i'm learning to manage my depression and-\nlife: yeah that's over. that's cancelled.
sadness	tweets	@MariamVeiszadeh #depressing it's so freaking close !
sadness	tweets	Trial result #sadness
sadness	tweets	I am more comfortable here at the Dove House than I was in my own home for 24 years. This is HOME &amp; I am very grateful. #dove #indy #sober
sadness	tweets	Only God knows why things happen, sometimes it's just hard to understand. #sad #prayingforyou
sadness	tweets	Only God knows why things happen, sometimes it's just hard to understand.  #prayingforyou
sadness	tweets	Just because I'm hurting \nDoesn't mean I'm hurt \nDoesn't mean I didn't get \nWhat I deserved \nNo better and no worse #lost  @coldplay
sadness	tweets	Fashion week this year is dull AF! Someone inspire me!!!!!! 😩
sadness	tweets	Take heart amid the deepening gloom that your dog is finally getting enough cheese. ― National Lampoon, 'Deteriorada'
sadness	tweets	It's always over.. until I'm no longer sober... then it feels like I wana start over #UL
sadness	tweets	its so unfortunate that after all these years im still struggling with depression smh
sadness	tweets	Ghanaians don't need to wear black to mourn tho... They can just walk naked *dodges stones* Na joke na☹'
sadness	tweets	@RonBaker6694 I got a super speeder and lost my license for 6 months! 😩🔫
sadness	tweets	@ScottCarmichae1 @Murican_Stuff don't fret -- this guy is mad because when @realDonaldTrump  is elected he might have to get a real job
sadness	tweets	@KhaleesiofFood @BB_Updates she has stayed off the block almost all season, got out people that were good for her game, but no one seemed
sadness	tweets	@gurrie_j thanks for making me super sad about Pizza.  #freepizza
sadness	tweets	@gurrie_j thanks for making me super sad about Pizza. #sad #freepizza
sadness	tweets	Inadequacy slithers from her ears and wraps itself around her neck like the boys she wants to love her. #mpy #vss #quote #depression #poetry
sadness	tweets	&amp; like if your unhappy just leave. don't cheat on someone &amp; than up their view on love &amp; shit 💯..
sadness	tweets	@teenageic0n_ you'll be pleased to know my family are blues
sadness	tweets	@Meruna_  as a musician, I can tell you that more people get discouraged when learning because of shitty instruments than anything else.
sadness	tweets	Hi guys! I now do lessons via Skype! Contact me for more info. #skype #lesson #basslessons #teacher #free lesson #music #groove #rock #blues
sadness	tweets	Rockin to  Bob Dylan singin'  Bob Dylan's 115th Dream on LPCO Klassic Rock #classicrock #klassicrock #rocknroll #blues #onlineradio
sadness	tweets	feel really sad and down today😒
sadness	tweets	But right now I'm feeling pretty desolate.
sadness	tweets	#Drunk people annoy me when I'm #sober lol. | #fact #TeamFollowBack #RockTheReTweet
sadness	tweets	@_JESSICAVIDAL_ Just pour it down the sink and let him drink you.
sadness	tweets	@Dark_Intell Darius' article was what convinced me that the time and money I had sunk into the IGDA in past years was wasted. Good re-read.
sadness	tweets	i really want to read this fic i found but it's #serious and this room is full of #memes
sadness	tweets	UPLIFT: If you're still discouraged it means you're listening to the wrong voices &amp; looking to the wrong source. Look to the LORD!
sadness	tweets	I'm strong 'cause I'm weak\nI'm beautiful 'cause I know my flaws\nI'm fearless 'cause I've been afraid\nI can laugh 'cause I've known sadness..
sadness	tweets	This is the @Fender #blues #junior. I'm looking forward to play on it as soon as possible. #guitar #guitarrist #music
sadness	tweets	Dreams dashed and divided like million stars in the night sky.
sadness	tweets	You are NOT your struggle or You are NOT your affliction! #YouAreStrong &amp; #YouAreArising above it all!
sadness	tweets	Fun tidbit: You can fall asleep on someone while dancing. #blues #latenight
sadness	tweets	The #sober equivalent of being in a #bar women's restroom is the #salon. Everyone compliments each other &amp; become friends. I love it
sadness	tweets	I lost my wallet, then found it, then lost it again AND THEN FOUND IT!!!!! \nCollege is brazy
sadness	tweets	@hedgegirl I was only joking. I don't have any parents. 😈 #dark
sadness	tweets	oh, btw - after a 6 month depression-free time I got a relapse now... superb #depression
sadness	tweets	oh, btw - after a 6 month depression-free time I got a relapse now... superb
sadness	tweets	Absolutely hate the Apple Watch iOS 10 update. Completely buggered some of my apps, including Spark. Awful interface, too. #grim
sadness	tweets	The animals, the animals\nTrap trap trap till the cage is full\nThe cage is full, stay awake\nIn the dark, count mistakes
sadness	tweets	Love is when all your happiness and all your sadness and all your feelings are dependent on another person.
sadness	tweets	@antoboyle I so wish you could someday come to Spain with the play, I can't believe I'm not going to see it #sad
sadness	tweets	@antoboyle I so wish you could someday come to Spain with the play, I can't believe I'm not going to see it
sadness	tweets	Always borrow money from a pessimist; he doesn't expect to be paid back.
sadness	tweets	But guess what ? I'm sober
sadness	tweets	@MissFushiGaming I hashtag things and the kids always tell me to stop 😭😭😭😭😭 #sadness
sadness	tweets	@WalshFreedom sadly, that idiot completely overlooks the facts . He had a gun pointed at police. Are they that stupid?That should be ignored
sadness	tweets	@localblactivist I'm always a little bit weary of speaking up because 1. I don't want to hijack the convo - as an LGBT person, I've seen
sadness	tweets	Go away please ... I'm begging »»» #depression #anxiety #worry #fear #sadness \nDreams of joy and my baby to be found...Sits on #AndisBench
sadness	tweets	This nigga doesn't even look for his real family 🙄😂 #sad
sadness	tweets	This nigga doesn't even look for his real family 🙄😂
sadness	tweets	So blend the waters lie\nThere shrines and free-  The melancholy waters lie\nNo rays from out the dull tide-  As if the vine
sadness	tweets	God knows why you'd wanna go with a girl who's slept with half ya mates #grim
sadness	tweets	People are trying too hard to hate on Cam Newton without understanding his position #sad
sadness	tweets	People are trying too hard to hate on Cam Newton without understanding his position
sadness	tweets	@cristinalaila1 just when I thought this disgusting man couldn't sink any lower-like Hillary he his depravity of character has no bottom
sadness	tweets	@SizweM01 and it's kinda depressing hey!!! 😑
sadness	tweets	@KseniaSolo hi little late to lost girl but think you awesome from South Afrikaans:-)
sadness	tweets	@MiSSLiNDZO no. 😭 the last two we were out-bidded. So we got kinda discouraged so now we are taking our sweet time. The market is stupid tho
sadness	tweets	Way to get a hold of her 😊 #depressing
sadness	tweets	TVGirl is like I'm really pretty and melancholic about life and this is why I hate myself
sadness	tweets	Actually I always idealize the end of my relationships .. Such a pessimist
sadness	tweets	After she threw me out I had to sedate her. With a damn horse tranquilizer.'
sadness	tweets	Man city's kit is dreadful!
sadness	tweets	There will be no #gaming video today. An old friend of mine passed last night, so I'm taking some time to grieve. Thank you #StandUpToCancer
sadness	tweets	I did the dishes yesterday, fell asleep, woke up to the sink full and I didn't even eat dinner but I have to do the dishes.
sadness	tweets	even if it looks like we are okay,  the reality of that is were actually very worn out and forlorn
sadness	tweets	Interesting topic this evening...  sadness &amp; low mood. #MHChat
sadness	tweets	someone explain female human beings to me, they're depressing me ._.
sadness	tweets	Dont dull #Dutty_Wednesday
sadness	tweets	@brawl2099 See your primary care doctor. They can prescribe meds and refer you to a psychiatrist for eval. Don't mess with depression.
sadness	tweets	@kagehime3 I'm so starved for content I'd take it but I'd def pout about it (՟ິͫઘ ՟ິͫ)
sadness	tweets	@ChrisWarcraft species cf. Don Jr. refugees/Skittles.know he likes his snacks,but even @gop frown on talking about eating humans #lizardscum
sadness	tweets	Trying to make a #better_world is #depressing when it's a #failure -__-
sadness	tweets	Lines from Don't Quit take me to a place of ultimate strength when I start to feel weary. 💪🏾
sadness	tweets	That's the old me though #imachildofgod #whatistwerking #sober #married #bye
sadness	tweets	@mcjamie sadly. It's just.. Did the dude have to yell out the frogs name at the Clinton rally that one day. It changed everything
sadness	tweets	Is that hurting..? [Features get a tad somber while attempting to sense @MischievousTyke's temperature]
sadness	tweets	doese reading help depression or is it another form of escapism
sadness	tweets	#Gratitude - recovery health love God conscious drive hope perseverance wealthy home kids SoCal #recoveryfit youthful #sober
sadness	tweets	Idk why people be glorifying depression. I wouldn't wish real depression upon my worst enemy. Shits the worst stop acting like it's cool
sadness	tweets	Maybe I can sleep with my chem book on my head and it will all sink in my brain
sadness	tweets	i cant live anymore my roblox got termianted :(((((((((((((((((((((((( #sad #killme #lol #robloxgamer
sadness	tweets	i cant live anymore my roblox got termianted :((((((((((((((((((((((((  #killme #lol #robloxgamer
sadness	tweets	Come here, let me do whatever I do with it. #dismal
sadness	tweets	When it comes to Syria, I get very fucking annoyed at pessimism, like I get full on triggered. Optimism or gtfo.
sadness	tweets	Heading home to cut grass in the heat. All I wanna do is go out to eat somewhere air conditioned.  #AdultingIsTheWorst
sadness	tweets	Heading home to cut grass in the heat. All I wanna do is go out to eat somewhere air conditioned. #pout #AdultingIsTheWorst
sadness	tweets	@ManUnitedWriter He has had a dreadful first half, not to mention rashford would've got on the end of a couple of those through balls #pace
sadness	tweets	Heart heavy for lost furry family members. Remembering Max and Ozzie. Forever friends as 🐶😇
sadness	tweets	Awake at 5.30am with a seriously bad throat 😩😩😩😩😷🤒 glands feel huuuuuuuge and I'm in uni soon! #grim
sadness	tweets	@lefluerr Lol yeah I read that but I stayed up and didn't nap tillI collect 3 people who I think they've got me 😂😂!!
sadness	tweets	Thanks to all the #sober drivers. The real winners of the night! #ClemvsGT
sadness	tweets	But God will deliver the righteous to their place of salvation: no evil shall touch them، nor shall they grieve
sadness	tweets	#2 complained then while his head and then called do not despair of God's mercy if you did sins go back to him and ask his forgiveness
sadness	tweets	gloomy days should just be for high cuddles and movies
sadness	tweets	#Quote 'To say that You know Yourself without ever having been #lost to find Yourself, Is like saying You know everything' ~@Caligraphy215
sadness	tweets	why yall hyped abt that girl getting to hang out w JB, he clearly looks so unhappy and bored in the pics no offense LOL, plus he hates yall
sadness	tweets	Well stomach cramps did not make that spin class any easier. Why does my body hate digesting porridge so much 😩 #spinning #sulk
sadness	tweets	Special thanks to @hamsterwatch &amp; @UgotBronx for keeping us updated &amp; entertained this dismal BB season 💕
sadness	tweets	♪OLD FISH  #discourage
sadness	tweets	Muscled man with huge heart is messing with my brain and heart. #lost #confused
sadness	tweets	@chrislhayes It's hard for most folks to realize how deep the hatred is until you dive into the murky end of the pool. This guy is nuts.
sadness	tweets	The snaps/Insta pics I see of the friends I made while in Cali are so unbelievably depressing cause there's no place I'd rather be but there
sadness	tweets	@tariqmateen but sadly he missed some crucial and important points. Indian terrorism in pk,  kal Boshan,  etc..  Raw involvement
sadness	tweets	Remember your journey is unique! Don't get discouraged because you're comparing your journey to someone else's. You will get there!
sadness	tweets	Sejejs says Cibulskis missed time in 3rd period due to an injury. Wouldn't comment on how serious it is. Apparently not a doctor.
sadness	tweets	Biggest joke in life? Kardashian and Jenner stans. Their lives are so dull, parents must be so proud.
sadness	tweets	@NikhilTikare i like cold gloomy weather
sadness	tweets	Cuddling literally kills depression, relieves anxiety, and strengthens the immune system.
sadness	tweets	#Taurus, for the most part, you have perfect control over your Emotions and you are careful not to be so sulky around anyone!
sadness	tweets	What I would give\nTo feel the sunlight on my face\nWhat I would give\nTo be lost in your embrace 🎧\n\n#Fallen
sadness	tweets	Honestly don't know why I'm so unhappy most of the time. I just want it all to stop :(   #itnevergoes
sadness	tweets	Honestly don't know why I'm so unhappy most of the time. I just want it all to stop :( #unhappy #depression #itnevergoes
sadness	tweets	@Skepta make sure you's Young breadrins sling us a quick vote #murky #skeng #votage
sadness	tweets	@NicKeaney Hope they refuse :( x #depressing
sadness	tweets	@Conorojo Loool understand the pessimism but it will 😂
sadness	tweets	@nickb88 @Buster_ESPN pine rider
sadness	tweets	This took a melancholy turn but my point is that for all the difficulties I'm still happy. Happy that I get to be who I am.
sadness	tweets	@MCHorseFayse @bockaguyjim @generalgoodsman @nevernotdavid so you were owned by losers on Twitter #sad
sadness	tweets	@MCHorseFayse @bockaguyjim @generalgoodsman @nevernotdavid so you were owned by losers on Twitter
sadness	tweets	@strong_bread dude we same fukc i lost my spectacles this morning.......
sadness	tweets	#savemoney and #savelifes @ your #openbar @your #weddingreception. Close it 1-2 hours early, forcing your guests to sober up before driving.
sadness	tweets	@tonygoldmark Yeah I won't mourn it but I'm glad I rode it the last time I visited.
sadness	tweets	@diamonde my heart just sunk.
sadness	tweets	I feel like singing the song human sadness by Julian Cassablancas and The Voidz or some other sad music. #depression #sad #sadness
sadness	tweets	SRV's 'Voodoo Child' is approximately 76 times better than Jimi's. #guitar #music #blues
sadness	tweets	@grumpy_pumper I involuntarily smile when you frown in photos. And giggle. How annoying!!
sadness	tweets	@Tanzynia sadly David D is no longer with us imagine both together wow
sadness	tweets	Haven't been here a while, been watching lots of TV. Conclusion #whataloadoftat...if I wasn't depressed before afternoon TV is #grim
sadness	tweets	Haven't been here a while, been watching lots of TV. Conclusion #whataloadoftat...if I wasn't depressed before afternoon TV is
sadness	tweets	@Mysteri759 @Ren102e906 @slb42jcb @swoozyqyah Well, I'm too old, and too stubborn about facts &amp; history to be discouraged.
sadness	tweets	Says to my maw the other day, wanna day sober October way me, she says 'ave mer chance of doing movember son' #classicmoira #glasgow #sober
sadness	tweets	it's pretty depressing when u hit pan on ur favourite highlighter
sadness	tweets	ah #lost #mah #train of thunk.
sadness	tweets	@Adrian_Specs Far from safe and staid I found it horribly OTT at times while everyone seemed to be trying just a little too hard. Not for me
sadness	tweets	@Megane_Matt @HikariMorou next to despair, hope shines even brighter (you get me Matt)
sadness	tweets	🍂🎵☀\n#fall sounds great !\ndream #blues #rock by @RaphaelSlagg.\nGet the top album  'One Love'  by hero @BlindFret. :D
sadness	tweets	I'd pay good money to watch someone slap that pout off Candice.
sadness	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause they see the happy exterior, not the hopelessness I sometimes feel inside. #depression #anxiety #anxietyprobz
sadness	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause they see the happy exterior, not the hopelessness I sometimes feel inside.  #anxiety #anxietyprobz
sadness	tweets	@todofuku dreadful day at work n now im gonna be late for class n im covered in paint, n now i have to work a night shift too :/
sadness	tweets	Nobody wants a grouch but DONT move to SD if you want to be a rapper. #serious
sadness	tweets	@mypalalex but still your my favorite person in DF besides grim
sadness	tweets	@icapturpix @DRUDGE_REPORT I agree. This current, ultra-left Democratic party lost a lot of members, including myself. I switched to Repub.
sadness	tweets	Although this is my best semester so far, this is also my most depressing because I'm constantly reminded that I'm not meant for greatness
sadness	tweets	Synth backing tracks = sadness\n#depresspop #dark #+++ #alt #fuckingmeup
sadness	tweets	will brawndo cure my depression? @MikeJudge #Idiocracytoday
sadness	tweets	If you love something, let it go. If it comes back, it is yours. If it doesn't, it never will. #sadness #accepting
sadness	tweets	because a kitchen sink to you is not a kitchen sink to me, okay friend?
sadness	tweets	@kerophibian depressing
sadness	tweets	@almurray hit the sink with a hammer... sorry, the universal modifier!
sadness	tweets	I feel like an appendix. I don't have a purpose. #sad #depressed #depression #alone #lonely #broken #sadness #cry #hurt #crying #life
sadness	tweets	But is it your fault you worked hard and stayed the course until eventually it all paid off, no! so let it be known and count up!
sadness	tweets	I feel like a burden every day that I waste but I don't know how to get out of this bc I get so discouraged all I wanna do is lay around 🙃
sadness	tweets	@RIPPoohSavage u know ion play that shit bout my weary brother
sadness	tweets	I saw someone discourage someone from following their dreams. Just because you want to live in mediocrity doesn't mean someone else should.
sadness	tweets	You forever straight so fix that frown u good😇 @amayyaaag__
sadness	tweets	@d6vey you are grim mate
sadness	tweets	@PunishedSnek in the final analysis, the non-white global majority will not fret over the ethnic origin of our corpses.
sadness	tweets	the sad moment when u hand in an exam knowing u failed and grieve by eating and sleeping
sadness	tweets	I can't even celebrate my wins or mourn my L's cause first test week is that busy 😕
sadness	tweets	Grim and despair feeling-I look at self and my family. Hubby fought 20+ years for this country. I've worked 20+ years for this govt--&gt;
sadness	tweets	now im all alone and my joy's turned to moping
sadness	tweets	RM will win the game at the last minutes and Madridistas will say Cules stayed this long watching RM win at the end. Disgusting fanbase
sadness	tweets	@1ChiefsDan Is that pessimism or do you just want him to get another week of rest and healing?
sadness	tweets	@kimdelacreme_ @Srgohdatzme305  I'm there... let me know #sober
sadness	tweets	@kimdelacreme_ @Srgohdatzme305  I'm there... let me know
sadness	tweets	@fpuebla3 @Osbaldo_A lost a friend too
sadness	tweets	@susanbrodigan @lyricconcert Ha yes- the look of despair!
sadness	tweets	@ImNotInfected — rather someone that could help her. Concern clouded her green eyes, not once having seen a girl alone in the woods and —
sadness	tweets	@_JuliaSteiner : YES ! Right ? I mean I wish you hadn't been discouraged to see #MikeandMolly because so many parallels really -
sadness	tweets	So grim being up at 6
sadness	tweets	Bain of my life having to drive to a cash point, Then to a shop for change in pound coins, Then to the gym all for a bastard sunbed. #grim
sadness	tweets	@wombletheballer well done bro😏 #blues #stategames #captain #shootthegerman
sadness	tweets	@AFCGraMaChroi oh, sorry if I've discouraged you 😂
sadness	tweets	@ycfcnick the city is famous for the shambles, sadly the old street in the centre plays second fiddle to the stadium debacle nowadays!
sadness	tweets	Clean the #sink and make your #bathroom shine.
sadness	tweets	_Her mind is a #dark room,\nDeveloping #Madness  ♨😘
sadness	tweets	Feels like I lost my best friend #lost #fml #missingyou
sadness	tweets	@Micky_A_Lawson Paddy McNair is our joint top scorer......yeah.....justlet that sink in haha
sadness	tweets	*Sigh*  #saddness #afterellen #shitsucks
sadness	tweets	@BoardEveryday @turnorder @pinchback21 80s new wave/techno - or jazz / blues depending my mood
sadness	tweets	@BroggersM19 @Calum250284 He had been retired 20 minutes ago by most blues on here 😊
sadness	tweets	It's been 5 weeks and I still go through depression smh
sadness	tweets	People too weak to follow their own dreams will always find a way to discourage yours.
sadness	tweets	It’s possible changing meds is best not done while under stress. Difficult to tell what part of despair is circumstantial, what is drugs.
sadness	tweets	@seantkin @coachella @RomanDanielsXXX @kodyknightXXX I see my 'eliminate the hanging tongue' campaign is a dismal failure.
sadness	tweets	@HartRamsey #UPLIFT If you're still discouraged it means UR Listening to the wrong voices &amp; looking to the wrong source. Look to the LORD!
sadness	tweets	You know when you're just slightly high, the state between sober and high af? That's beautiful. I wish I could feel like that 24/7.
sadness	tweets	If Troyler will die, I'm gonna die with them\n#troyler #sadness #fuckin'lifeisnotafairytale
sadness	tweets	Never let the sadness of your past ruin your future
sadness	tweets	@nadinekellman yes I can. Don't discourage me.
sadness	tweets	them cold, dark nights are slowly creeping in 🌌
sadness	tweets	@ReaganRachelle if I go I'm going to blow some serious money, idk if that's a sacrifice I'm willing with make
sadness	tweets	@rclemmons much #sadness and #heartbreak
sadness	tweets	Very depressing seeing my whole fam packing to go on holiday tomorrow and I'm just staying here 🙃
sadness	tweets	its a gloomy day, im cuddled in my bed watching brendon covering songs and i couldnt be more relaxed or happy 😋
sadness	tweets	Should've stayed at school cause ain't nobody here
sadness	tweets	@CornerBakery Sorry I missed you :) I stayed up late working and pondering life
sadness	tweets	@suddenlyapples This is an on-going affliction for me and the only cure is more Shiro
sadness	tweets	It's always depressing to sort WordPress plugin recommendations not by 'best' but by 'least offensive in terms of premium features.'
sadness	tweets	*wants body to look a certain way*\n*eats 3 cookies, mac n cheese, kitchen sink, and small neighbor child*
sadness	tweets	Their engine runs on fuel called whining :-)\n\nU jst  hv 2b observant..\nHar din Rona dhona &amp; complain. \nHappy news makes them unhappy :-)
sadness	tweets	Caballero's passing remains absolutely dreadful I see!
sadness	tweets	Listening to old school house music kentphonic-sunday showers 'hanging around' 'sing it back' #blues
sadness	tweets	I truly feel like science has the ability to make a milk out of anything ... cashew milk, hemp milk, pine nut milk, dandelion milk
sadness	tweets	@jordan_grimmer If that's messin I can't wait to see #serious !! Brilliant stuff
sadness	tweets	@AniahROSE I know smh. My heart sunk into my stomach.
sadness	tweets	How many tweets is that now? How fast was I going? God, I love being #sober and #intelligent.
sadness	tweets	@katethecursed @shannonrdk LOL this day is too gloomy for being people, should've canceled and stayed in bed
sadness	tweets	@funkxwidme only #true #depression #fans will get this one 😂😂
sadness	tweets	I'm looking for a good promoter #rock #blues
sadness	tweets	@danhirtle @Bell Another unhappy customer.  #secreteyes
sadness	tweets	When I was new, I hate the Judge Judy sponsorship style- but looking back it was the only thing that worked. #recovery #sober #cantconacon
sadness	tweets	@Hannahcolleen06 I have 12 &amp; that's the only one I didn't like 😂 mine comes out patchy. It's the only dark color by her I have tho.
sadness	tweets	I know it's the final day of summer when it's the finale of @CBSBigBrother #sadness
sadness	tweets	lost 11 lbs since I got married (eating healthy) &amp; ive gone from a 9:47 mile to a 8:50 mile in 2 weeks. #areyousureimagedout #fitness
sadness	tweets	@TelegraphNews why is this evil corrupt fuck still knocking about? The wrong people die I'm telling you. Do you job grim reaper!
sadness	tweets	Those were the times, I thought I can never be sober. But still His grace are beyond my limits 🙏🏾
sadness	tweets	@komaebun He just has that way of thinking, he wants absolute hope born from absolute despair.
sadness	tweets	@asjoshtaylor sadly I don't think I'll see you on tour, but have fun, you're gonna rock! 🎉👌🏻💙 #HotForMeTour
sadness	tweets	@metalAndTheGeek @astoldbyfANGIRL SAME! I always say it was the best time of my life. I closed my store down and it was so depressing
sadness	tweets	@kole_holland don't fret, there's another game on at 8 #staytuned
sadness	tweets	Historically Japanese have always been into #jazz and #blues. The 70s dark age of jazz big names like C.C. &amp; M.D. were surviving on Tokyo.
sadness	tweets	Honestly today I just felt like maybe track isn't for me #sad
sadness	tweets	Honestly today I just felt like maybe track isn't for me
sadness	tweets	@SiWheeler78 never a dull moment, hope you had a gd trip down
sadness	tweets	nooooo. Poor Blue Bell! not again. #sad
sadness	tweets	nooooo. Poor Blue Bell! not again.
sadness	tweets	@andreamitchell said @berniesanders not only did not play up HRC in campaigning 4 her in OH but he did not discourage 3rd Party vote. TRUE??
sadness	tweets	im having the worst week ever and i cant even go home yet to just sulk in my bed
sadness	tweets	Got a #serious #hyper #predator #heckler situation over here
sadness	tweets	@5SOS I swear I will not go mourn because😭😭💔💔
sadness	tweets	@_iConceitedOne_  Hi! We hate that you're unhappy your bill keeps going up! What unique features do you want with your plan? ^RobertS
sadness	tweets	@jimmyfallon @ShawnMendes I'm just a sucker for pine, I wanna rake you up, I wanna pile you down, I'm just a sucker for pine #FallSongs
sadness	tweets	@mizzymaxx @Bsmarz22 @ssmik2309 haha Bro she's sadly married man 😩😩
sadness	tweets	Fuck yall @Panthers for hiring that GOP PR guy to discourage Cam from speakinh his mind and heart about racism
sadness	tweets	@stevierayrob Can Elliot Friedman please stop talking, you are clueless. You haven't seen the ball since the kickoff. #mope
sadness	tweets	All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy
sadness	tweets	Yes I am picking up sticks and pine cones in my front yard
sadness	tweets	Seeing an old coworker and his wife mourn the loss of their 23 year old daughter was one of the saddest things I've ever seen 😢
sadness	tweets	can it stay gloomy but get cold pls
sadness	tweets	@macmacm43 jeezus God #dark
sadness	tweets	@macmacm43 jeezus God
sadness	tweets	This is the first time I've been sober on my birthday in 6 years. #recovery #sobriety #sober #soberissexy #sobernative
sadness	tweets	Have any of you ever stayed in hostels overseas? My only frame of reference is the movie Hostel, and we all know how that went.
sadness	tweets	the thing with Twitter is i only remember to tweet when i'm bored or alone and then it comes across like i have a really dull and sad life.👽
sadness	tweets	I need all your attention! If I don't I'll pout..
sadness	tweets	It would appear it's a good year for the #blues
sadness	tweets	.@WotzupCapeTown - thanks for sharing! Surprise guests! @HumanJurgen &amp; visiting US Tenor Sax @CunninghamColin. #livemusic #capetown #blues
sadness	tweets	@Simon_Barrett I will watch @BlairWitchMovie when it opens in Mexico in a week. Thank you for making it and don't be discouraged.
sadness	tweets	Well, I had hopes for today. No go. #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Henny and pine apples 🤔
sadness	tweets	@pete_ferriday Aww rest your weary head here
sadness	tweets	I've been loving you too long #OtisRedding #blues
sadness	tweets	@charles_gaba No, I am probably the person most likely to completely understand how gobsmacked you were to learn how true that is. #sadly
sadness	tweets	@_MrAminuddin @ejainews @_AlifH @AhmadFuadAdnan dont play with this master noob u want to win.. #serious
sadness	tweets	@JohnVerdejo Mannn I can't count how many times I've had the '#PR's power grid needs some serious updating' conversation...
sadness	tweets	Up on melancholy hill
sadness	tweets	Speech was bold coz it wasn't written by PM NS bt the expression/tone was his own dull n dim
sadness	tweets	Dropped my phone in the sink earlier.No sound, but everythin else works.Prepared myself for life without music until I put my earphones in
sadness	tweets	B day next week, catch the sauce and watch the heaviness!
sadness	tweets	@GrimsToyShow @hunna_chunna you got hacked on your gaming channel grim by evil wood clowns yesterday September 20 and September 21 today
sadness	tweets	How long will they mourn me?
sadness	tweets	@MUTGuru I know guys that sink $1000s into the game and only to build a team and play solos. But this hear you make nothing on solos.
sadness	tweets	Rooneys fucking untouchable isn't he? Been fucking dreadful again, depay has looked decent(ish)tonight
sadness	tweets	Ibiza blues hitting me hard already wow
sadness	tweets	Hey man are you asian?!' Nah man im hispan...'nah you just high as hell.' Some random crackhead in the wal-mart parking lot...cmon #sober
sadness	tweets	Does she really need to pout all the time - getting on my nerves #GBBO
sadness	tweets	Yet again another night I should've stayed in😊
sadness	tweets	Some questions you get on Twitter make you want to despair. We've been so battered. We complain but aren't convinced things could be better.
sadness	tweets	it's still not sunk in that im seeing joe next month, im so grateful and excited shit
sadness	tweets	@modelady24 I know, right? I had a tinge of the same thought. Glad it's Six from BSG, though. Happy the show stayed consistent after break.
sadness	tweets	Rooney ! Oh dear, oh dear ! Fucking dreadful 🙈⚽️⚽️
sadness	tweets	@Batman_ofgotham Her golden brown hues met with those baby blues as her arms crossed over the breasts he had been gulking at. 'Let me guess-
sadness	tweets	@zombieisIand yeah friends of minw have witnesse accidents and a road near me like??? cars hav like sunk?? but ih gosh be safe okay !!
sadness	tweets	@charles_gaba @NateSilver538 @DavMicRot @FiveThirtyEight A litany of name-calling. How dull.
sadness	tweets	That's how you start a season that's how you open the show #show #them #how #dark #hell #can #get #Empire
sadness	tweets	@Orrible_Ives I didn't say anything bad about the situation great mate, can't believe some were. Makes me despair of humanity
sadness	tweets	I know I've painted quite a grim picture of your chances. But if you simply stand here, we will both surely die.
sadness	tweets	I honestly feel nothing towards either of my parents and it's pretty depressing
sadness	tweets	@AshleyCWilson @MrDavidHobbs @IndyCaronNBCSN Glad the TV coverage was so successful because the attendance looked pretty dismal.
sadness	tweets	@OzelleM man imagine # Ultra is promoting carnival. I think u need to be the chairperson #serious. Cause am hearing nothing
sadness	tweets	Feminists should ask themselves, why they're so unhappy, and why they lack love in their lives. Is it b/c they are fighting a losing game?
sadness	tweets	life is hard., its harder if ur stupid #life #love  #sadderness #moreofsad #howdoestears #whatislife
sadness	tweets	life is hard., its harder if ur stupid #life #love #sadness #sadderness #moreofsad #howdoestears #whatislife
sadness	tweets	@MollieTebbatt guess what I'm doing? watching your great grandad sink the titanic..
sadness	tweets	I am worried that she felt safe. #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Happy Birthday Roy Buchanan, born on this day in 1939. #roybuchanan #guitar #blues #happybrithday
sadness	tweets	Cmon blues we are 2 home games away from another CC semi - I love those Wembley away days. Being on anyone at home please! ⚽
sadness	tweets	Probs spent a grand total of five minutes sober since Sunday evening :) #freshers
sadness	tweets	On the wheel as we grow older and become aware of ourselves as individuals with a dull responsibility in life?
sadness	tweets	@childctweets sad people are that sick and boring 😬😬😬
sadness	tweets	This whole #VanRE + extradition might turn into a Pandora's box. JT has no idea about that murky corrupt guanxi in China; Toad vs Dada ;-)
sadness	tweets	@MarkedMurderer Orion's eyes narrowed as he gazed down at the girl, ice cold blues meeting a softer than usual green. His instinct told him-
sadness	tweets	Well I won't be doing a unboxing of the iPhone 7 plus on my channel until November sadly. Thank you @TMobile @Apple Staten Island NY smh
sadness	tweets	@RealTimBooth I've never been fond of having dark eyes until seeing this share.
sadness	tweets	... Huh. Perhaps... Because we're both so dreary, we get along well?
sadness	tweets	@CrystiCaro yeah agree - I think it was a family member and they covered up #sad
sadness	tweets	@CrystiCaro yeah agree - I think it was a family member and they covered up
sadness	tweets	@ExaltedChampion - the jest, Kara didn't chuckle, instead her baby blues were narrowed in on Adam like a warning. If his brain /wasn't/ -
sadness	tweets	Sometimes the support network is causing the damage. \n\n#support #Damaged #alone #tired #lost #hurt #nojustice #depression #surivivor #NoMore
sadness	tweets	@SalterUK second pair of scales I have bought that have stopped working after battery change. Is this an issue you are aware of?  #unhappy
sadness	tweets	I saw those dreams dashed &amp;&amp; divided like a million stars in the night sky that I wished on over &amp;&amp; over again ~ sparkling &amp;&amp; broken.
sadness	tweets	Boy oh boy! our weekday schedule is crazy! But no matter how tired I am I do whatever it takes to keep the smile on Kai's face from a frown
sadness	tweets	@SussexMistress @sarahb45 @MsEvilyne @MissJessicaWood I'd be perched on that, unfortunately wrapped in heavy chains! #sink...
sadness	tweets	@flybe Doesn't explain the ability to land at Manchester but not Bradford - other than more convenient for Flybe. Many unhappy travelers
sadness	tweets	why the fuck does my mum want me to put corn in the curry?! #grim
sadness	tweets	@Aamnaa___ @drkarthik_n your per capita income is almost same like us. Gini Coefficient is very dismal. Ambitions are high but output Zero.
sadness	tweets	Looking nice forward to playing at Paper Dress Vintage in Hackney this evening - get there early as I'll be on at 8pm! @paperdressed #blues
sadness	tweets	Winner #Champion #school #lastyear #gouniversity #university #me #dark #Black #webstagram #blackandwhite
sadness	tweets	@ITdominiccoyle @IrishTimesBiz Between Barroso going to Goldman and this the @EU_Commission is getting a very serious self inflicted problem
sadness	tweets	@pottermore : I can't find my patronus, the website doesn't work, I can't even see the questions.... #sadness...
sadness	tweets	Nutella is pine green forget me nots are ivory frozen is god
sadness	tweets	I was not made for this world. #empath #unhappy
sadness	tweets	She used to be beautiful, but she lived her life too fast - Forest City Joe #blues #blinddogradio
sadness	tweets	Why does Candice constantly pout #GBBO 💄😒
sadness	tweets	@redBus_in #unhappy with #redbus CC, when I talked with them before a week still they didn't initiate the refund of the transaction.
sadness	tweets	@AceOperative789 no pull him afew weeks ago, sadly theres no game audio or sound affects cause i played it on my phone and tryed everything
sadness	tweets	I'm buying art supplies and I'm debating how serious is it to buy acrylic paint.
sadness	tweets	@sainsburys Could you ask your Chafford Hundred store to turn on their car park lights? A bit scary these dark nights! Thanks.
sadness	tweets	Depression sucks! #depression
sadness	tweets	Feeling worthless as always #depression
sadness	tweets	Feeling worthless as always
sadness	tweets	My #Fibromyalgia has been really bad lately which is not good for my mental state. I feel very overwhelmed #anxiety #bipolar #depression
sadness	tweets	Im think ima lay in bed all day and sulk. Life is hitting me to hard rn
sadness	tweets	So when I try I fail... and when I don't try... I still fail... #confused and #lost
sadness	tweets	Extreme sadness
sadness	tweets	my life in one word is depressing
sadness	tweets	Panic attacks are the worst. Feeling really sick and still shaking. I should be a sleep. #anxiety #depression
sadness	tweets	Feel so grim + ugly atm
sadness	tweets	Honestly depression is kicking my ass lately.. 😔
sadness	tweets	At my age all I see is gray. Is it gray because of my bad eyes or my perspective #depression  #healingjustice
sadness	tweets	After 3 idk why I start feeling so depress, sad and lonely.
sadness	tweets	I sulk too much for my own good.
sadness	tweets	A night where depression is winning... #depression #fml #help
sadness	tweets	Going home is depressing
sadness	tweets	We can't even grieve over one black body before another one pops up due to pig brutality
sadness	tweets	It's a gloomy ass day
sadness	tweets	@Fra93_bruno wow I'm just really sadden by that. Terrible
sadness	tweets	My heads still in Ibiza but my body is sat at me desk at work #depressing
sadness	tweets	@Ashleyavitia_ don't leave me #sad
sadness	tweets	Depression sucks!
sadness	tweets	It's been a week of awful connectivity with @TMobile no service or only 4G is not what Im paying for. #unhappy #poorservice
sadness	tweets	This the most depressing shit ever
sadness	tweets	Sometimes The Worst Place You Can Be Is In Your Own Head.'\n\n#quotes #worstenemy #depression #thinktoomuch
sadness	tweets	@TMobileHelp my service is down in Cleveland, OH. What's going on? #unhappy
sadness	tweets	What a sad evening - clearing out all of Harvey's cage and belongings. Now so final. Goodbye my little man.... #depressing
sadness	tweets	When you have 15 doe run the opposite side of you 🙁 #depression
sadness	tweets	The moment of the day when you have to start to plaster a smile in your face. #depression
sadness	tweets	I hate when it's gloomy outside because it always gets me in a depressing mood
sadness	tweets	People stealing things from my work out quite the damper on my day so now I am going to wear pajamas all day
sadness	tweets	@FlakeJay ring ring! #depression is here
sadness	tweets	It's now September and we're still battling a situation that was said to be handled March of this year. @ATT this is unacceptable #unhappy
sadness	tweets	@xBFDR yeah I'm sure it will, it's just so depressing having to talk to my parents over the phone instead of talking to them downstairs
sadness	tweets	| At home sick... 🎼The blues🎼 won't cure it so I need ideas 🎸😭 | #sorethroat #sick #blues #music #fallweather #carletonuniversity #ottawa
sadness	tweets	I wouldn't wish anxiety and depression even on the worst of people. It's not fun. #anxiety #depression
sadness	tweets	sorry Main twitter im in depress
sadness	tweets	@Markgatiss I'm surrounded by those Trump voters. You're right, it is fucking terrifying. #redstate #despair
sadness	tweets	come to the funeral tomorrow at 12 to mourn the death of my gpa
sadness	tweets	@TNFryed Jesus, you just made think that of all the Vols v fl games I've seen. I've never seen a win. #depression
sadness	tweets	After spending £450 @Debenhams I was offered a £5 voucher. I asked if I could spend it at weekend? Was told 'no valid today only' #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Thought I had a pretty solid GPA as a kin major and now that I look at the average for dpt programs I feel even more discouraged 😪
sadness	tweets	depress 😭
sadness	tweets	Lament a \nsaddened heart,\nso far &amp; \nyet so near,\nthe years so\ntough &amp; scarred,\nthis lonesome\nroad,\nstill feared! #depression \n\n#poetry #poem
sadness	tweets	Summer officially ends today. #sadness
sadness	tweets	Well my evaluation came back and i am minimally effective. Student test scores on the PARCC sunk my eval. it's time for me to quit teaching
sadness	tweets	bad news fam, life is still hard and awful #depression #anxiety #atleastIhaveBuffy
sadness	tweets	Oh, I should just 'get over' my #depression and 'be happy?' Don't you think I've tried that thousands of times already? You're not helping.
sadness	tweets	Im really constipated. This is depressing
sadness	tweets	When health insurance won't cover TMS but they let me know they cover ECT #mentalhealth #psychology #depression #TMS #ECT
sadness	tweets	Somewhere between  #hope and #despair the day after #meetingmyabuserincourt \n#DVSurvivor
sadness	tweets	@Christy_RTR @doge_e_fresh I'm despondent
sadness	tweets	2 applications for my dbs and still waiting. Been over a year now. Going to loose my job 👍🏿 @GOVUK  #thanks #unhappy #crb
sadness	tweets	I miss when social media was a place to get laughs off and jump in DMs lol..... shit is depressing now 😞
sadness	tweets	@Hayles_101 The three R's depress me.
sadness	tweets	Too many gloomy days
sadness	tweets	The weather sure matches the mood in this state today.. #gloomy
sadness	tweets	and again dirty and  self loathing attitude  mope talking
sadness	tweets	Wearing all black tomorrow as I continue to mourn the lives of the most recent victims of police brutality. #blackout #WU
sadness	tweets	Am I the only person who dislikes fall? #FirstDayofFall #leaves #thingsdie #depressing #cold #noflipflops 👎🏾👎🏽👎🏻🍂🍁
sadness	tweets	My soul is weary of fighting the battles in this world. #BlackInAmerica #WeAreNotSafe
sadness	tweets	My prayers are with the family, friends &amp; members of @VCFD  as you mourn the loss of Engineer Ryan Osler. #LODD #RIP
sadness	tweets	Just wish I was appreciated for all I do! When is it my turn to be taken care of!! I want a break!! #tired
sadness	tweets	@pureleine though lately with how bad my depression has been i feel like my body is like just, taking what little it can get
sadness	tweets	We have left #Maine. #sadness
sadness	tweets	so fucking sad when the person you love doesn't try fighting for your happiness, when you'd do anything for them.
sadness	tweets	@jccrocker #CharlotteProtest do u #wait 4 the facts #video or do u #hate now ask questions later #sad #protest #PoliceShootings #suggestions
sadness	tweets	It's interesting the photo of Mono Lisa is crying as well as the whole scene is very depressing #ELE6200
sadness	tweets	The news is disheartening. Everything that is going on is a result of a lack of understanding and misinformation by the media. #sadness
sadness	tweets	Never ever been this unhappy before in my life lmao
sadness	tweets	@lebara - worst possible decision I could have made when arriving in the UK. Shocking service. Poor coverage. #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Condolences to the  JC and the Georges family.. #sad
sadness	tweets	No one wants to win the wild card because you have to play the Cubs on the road.  #sadness
sadness	tweets	Groom gloom.
sadness	tweets	I don't think I can go to work tomorrow since val has left #GBBO I need a day to mourn
sadness	tweets	Good morning lovely people. Not gonna lie I've woken up feeling pretty glum.
sadness	tweets	@6itmap I can't help but feel melancholic!
sadness	tweets	@CTV_PowerPlay @lraitt Horrid disease! My maternal grandmother and each of her sisters suffered from this affliction. It's hard on all.
sadness	tweets	If anybody needs me I'll be drowning my blues in a sea of whiskey 🍻
sadness	tweets	@jeremycorbyn @magstogether my god is @jeremycorbyn a full shilling? Seriously you need a major rethink or no lab gove in your lifetime #sad
sadness	tweets	in health we did a think about depression and now i feel like i have it
sadness	tweets	@Gaychel22 @Kellee_II @seattlepi even hard facts don't seem to be sinking in... I despair 😩
sadness	tweets	So depressing that it's darker so much earlier now
sadness	tweets	@KingJames @chrisbosh\n To good hearts I lost my job I'm Responsible 2 families My Information in profile even dollar if can’t just Re-tweet
sadness	tweets	Currently unfollowing anything relating to disneyworld or Florida! #holidayblues #depressing #wantogoback 😭💔
sadness	tweets	It's just begun ladies and gents. The war on racism has begun. #sadness #Segregation continues.... smh 😒
sadness	tweets	Just wish I was appreciated for all I do! When is it my turn to be taken care of!! I want a break!! #tired #lost
sadness	tweets	So Mary Berry, Mel and Sue have gone with their principles, and @PaulHollywood  has gone with the fame and fortune. #GBBO  #depressing
sadness	tweets	@crimsonwulfe it's super sad!! Especially when you are talking to a real person and not a bot! Makes it feel real :(
sadness	tweets	@ily_geuly call me now I'm laying in my bed moping like I intend to do for the next 2 months.
sadness	tweets	Baaarissshhhhh + sad song =  prefect night — feeling alone
sadness	tweets	im so gloomy today
sadness	tweets	Honestly I've come to a place where I keep getting discouraged but just gotta tell myself to keep pushing through it.
sadness	tweets	. @KotakBankLtd @udaykotak official got in touch. Issue not addressed. #unhappy #patheticservices
sadness	tweets	Back in Cardiff after an amazing 10 days away 😭 #depressing
sadness	tweets	so lost i'm faded
sadness	tweets	Sometimes The Worst Place You Can Be Is In Your Own Head.'\n\n #quotes #worstenemy  #thinktoomuch
sadness	tweets	@British_Airways just came of BA6426 at @ortambo_int at least 6 passengers with broken bags. This was a new suitcase. #unhappy customer
sadness	tweets	Tell me how I'm supposed to feel. #broken #hateful #guilty #love #sadness
sadness	tweets	tomorrow will be the last episode of despair arc, so much shit is gonna happen i'm not emotionally prepared...
sadness	tweets	@TheZantarin Then maybe we should keep our White mouths shut and let the people being targeted speak and mourn.
sadness	tweets	@rockcock64 cum and despair
sadness	tweets	Ill say it again. If I was a Black man Id be afraid to leave my house or have a moving violation.\n\n#TerranceCrutcher #truth #sad
sadness	tweets	i is sad
sadness	tweets	Wanna pop some pills, sedate myself, and wake up tomorrow.
sadness	tweets	Patti seems so sad. She stamped and ran behind the sofa. We will have to give her plenty of love and affection...more than usual. #sad
sadness	tweets	It feels like there are no houses out there for us. With the most basic requirements I have, there are literally no options. #discouraged
sadness	tweets	Don't wanna go to work but I want the money #sad
sadness	tweets	Wow the #Denver housing market is #depressing no places to buy in my range 😢 #FML
sadness	tweets	one ep of despair arc made me happy but and then i'm going back to future arc and i'm upset again.
sadness	tweets	I have not nap for 3 days in a row I'm very unhappy rn
sadness	tweets	@megalvz literally was gloomy for an hour
sadness	tweets	@MendipHillsAONB do we think the swallows and swifts have gone? Photo'd 3 nights ago, not seen since. #sad #Autumn
sadness	tweets	Fucking gutted, disheartened &amp; so pissed off.Gone from 1 off the toughest most resolute defences to the worst &amp; most shambolic #SCFC #STOHUL
sadness	tweets	@TootingCommon stop!!! Don't make me laugh when I'm being sad.
sadness	tweets	Condolences to the  JC and the Georges family..
sadness	tweets	@GoPro your UX online is appalling! No clear save button, not being able to use any generic TLD's #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Literally being here makes me depress tbh
sadness	tweets	@wabermes The @RavalliRepublic had a good one but then the reporter quit. #sad
sadness	tweets	This room is rather dreary, but we endure what we must.
sadness	tweets	where broken hearted lovers do cry away their gloom
sadness	tweets	Another grim &amp; compelling news report by @Nawalf on the blockade of aid to the starving in #Yemen #BBC #dosomethingpoliticans
sadness	tweets	@GCC_DiscGolf lost my xt nova around hole 8 or 9 #sadness
sadness	tweets	@Uber_RSA when you click over and over again for a cupcake but there are no vehicles available... #sadness
sadness	tweets	Nasty nasty chilly rain has put a damper on my afternoon cigar.  This is NOT a good thing. @cspanwj And FOUR #CongressCritters tomorrow?
sadness	tweets	I got diagnosed with severe-extreme depression and I didn't know there was a difference between those two lol
sadness	tweets	#haikuchallenge #haiku\n\nThe crisp autumn air\nMy freedom purchased through death\nNo one will mourn me
sadness	tweets	Smokeys dad is sad :/
sadness	tweets	Americans as a whole are, for the most part, feeling borderline despair at the very least. Looking at a situation out of control.
sadness	tweets	@ryyyshh story of my life. #lost
sadness	tweets	When will the weeks full of Mondays end?? #disheartened
sadness	tweets	@HannahFJames I'm distraught! 😭 Candice and her pout can piss off
sadness	tweets	@HutchinsonDave I don't know whether to despair or agitate for a cull.
sadness	tweets	Can I just sulk in peace 😂
sadness	tweets	It's sad when your man leaves work a little bit late and your worst fear is 'Oh no!! Did he get stopped by the police?!?! ' #sad #ourworld
sadness	tweets	MY CAR IS DENTED FROM THE HAIL sad
sadness	tweets	From My head to think it was better but obviously it's not #relapse #sadness #sickness #madness #misunderstanding
sadness	tweets	@WilsonsWorld I was in high school and remember helping neighbors clean up back home in Greenville.  Pretty sobering stuff.  #sadness
sadness	tweets	I have sleep cooties.\nI close my eyes and dream that I'm awake #weary #sleepissues #narcolepsy
sadness	tweets	wow almost all the T-Mobile stores in San Diego are out of Note7 replacements #sadness I need to get mine replaced
sadness	tweets	I forgot my hair straightner home, I'm feeling lost without it... #lost #lostWithoutMyHairStraightener
sadness	tweets	And I won't even get started with Hillary and her fancy fundraisers! #depressing
sadness	tweets	The underground at Waterloo is not a nice place to be at 8.30am on a Thursday #somanypeople #grim
sadness	tweets	When will the weeks full of Mondays end??
sadness	tweets	@Samkingftw ew omg that is so grim
sadness	tweets	@thatsabingo grim really
sadness	tweets	With loyal heart is concerned. #somber
sadness	tweets	@knology has providing customers w/equipment that doesn't deliver speeds of internet services that they have been charging. #unhappy #scam
sadness	tweets	@CNN yes. Too many cops. And too many ppl who should have lost their lives r still alive.
sadness	tweets	If you find me lost, will you stay as a passerby or will you get lost with me? #musings #melancholy
sadness	tweets	I'm getting use to not having a phone it's sad ..
sadness	tweets	I'm slugging vitamin D pills by the handful, like they were m&amp;ms. When will this eternal winter end?! #Melbourne #grim #overit
sadness	tweets	Sometimes the support network is causing the damage. \n\n #support #Damaged #alone #tired  #hurt #nojustice  #surivivor #NoMore
sadness	tweets	@JUSTICESLUT420 sadly this sort of poster died by the 90s afaik
sadness	tweets	@lucy_hyner @Soulboy2266 sadly not !! One less hour drinking time 😢🍻
sadness	tweets	I was in the dark room for 58 minutes and failed every time I tried developing a photo I'm so frustrated with myself :')
sadness	tweets	Mixed emotions. #sadness #anxietymaybe #missingfriends #growingupsucks #lostfriends #wheresthetruefriends #complications
sadness	tweets	@Jay_2752 thank you, I shall mourn her
sadness	tweets	Making that yearly transition from excited and hopeful college returner to sick and exhausted pessimist. #college
sadness	tweets	@Gervaisoholic But this is no easy ride for a child cries: \n'Oh, find me...find me, nothing more, \nWe are on a sullen misty moor...'
sadness	tweets	Had to give my 11yo AfAm son this advice today: 'be polite, no sudden movements, keep hands where they can see them'. #sadness
sadness	tweets	Man Southampton will wipe the floor with  west ham on Sunday. So disheartened
sadness	tweets	@Fly_Norwegian quite simply the #worst #airline #worstairline I've ever used! #shocking #appauling #dire #dismal #beyondajoke #useless
sadness	tweets	Hate knowing I have to get up at half 5 for gym in the morning it's so depressing
sadness	tweets	@DeltaAssist Tried 2 get earlier flt 2day  @BWI Turnd away bcuz it was 2 late Then agent let other pas on #silvereliteleftbehind #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Love all the ex United managers on Twitter who form our fanbase. Honestly I despair at times. Just back the fucking team eh #MUFC
sadness	tweets	Can we go back 2 weeks and start again ?? This is seriously dreadful
sadness	tweets	I'm honestly upset that they rewarded Nicole 500k. #depressing #paulwasrobbed #rewardhardwork #bitterjury #bb18
sadness	tweets	I haven't watched my favorite youtubers in months and it's honestly made my depression so much worse
sadness	tweets	@midnight #EndTrumpweek please, it's #depressing me.
sadness	tweets	@MHChat I think sadness is felt very strongly physically and mentally.  It feels like it takes over and it's hard to focus at work #MHChat
sadness	tweets	@gagasklaine it's old sadly
sadness	tweets	@TDYLN sadly not :(
sadness	tweets	#Terencecutcher #Tulsa the man onthe helicopter said he looks like a bad dude, that is the problem, when they see black they see bad, #sad
sadness	tweets	@KatHeartwell some don't see the difference between courting and appealing to a women vs deception &amp; pressure it's depressing
sadness	tweets	It's way too hard not to get discouraged.
sadness	tweets	as a very depressed and suicidal person seeing someone sing about their own depressing life yet having fun is very relatable and encouraging
sadness	tweets	I've returned from the dead with a desire to clean the apartment and eat something that isn't garbage. #managing #depression
sadness	tweets	@WestHamUtd poor service tonight to find season ticket holders in the seats we purchased online. Forced to move further away #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Even a pencil✏ never #stayed  with me until it's #end ⚫ 😞
sadness	tweets	so gutted i dropped one of my earrings down the sink at school
sadness	tweets	Having holiday blues! #WantToGoBackToMinehead.
sadness	tweets	I'd rather die alone then end up with somebody who can't be sober
sadness	tweets	I don't think it's fully sunk in that Val is gone yet
sadness	tweets	Hate being sober so I popped two
sadness	tweets	It's pretty clear I can't stand @HillaryClinton, no tolerance for habitual liars. Not a Trump fan either so what's a citizen to do? #despair
sadness	tweets	@MoneyJay901 hard to tell in your pic. My mistake then. Either way, nothing I said initially was about race. U took it there. #sad #ignorant
sadness	tweets	@X_KIMTAEHYUNG_X \n— momentarily before it disappeared, only solemnity and anxiety lacing his features. \n\n'I ran out to get you before —
sadness	tweets	All the 'juniors' are now wearing purple at ollafest while I'm here fighting with my alarm about when I need to wake up for German #sadness
sadness	tweets	The fact I haven't had to wear a bra for a week and knowing I'll have to start wearing one again after tomorrow is depressing 🙄🙄
sadness	tweets	Liam is too distant makes me mourn 😪
sadness	tweets	It's now September and we're still battling a situation that was said to be handled March of this year. @ATT this is unacceptable
sadness	tweets	This weather got me fucked up. Like you either be sunny and hot or gloomy and cold. No in between.
sadness	tweets	@ATTCares why do I have 2 wait 48 hours to call YOU back to cancel an order I JUST placed after already spending 2 hours on the phone?! #sad
sadness	tweets	Life is too short so dont shoot it in with worries sadness and grief.
sadness	tweets	Brb going to sulk in bed until Friday
sadness	tweets	@LVLMLeah Nooooooooooooooooooooo. We have stupid, dismal, lame winters where we maybe get some dangerous ice once.
sadness	tweets	#RIPKara i could have seen her at a local mall or any school football games. im disheartened
sadness	tweets	@RossKemp great programme tonight #sad #upsetting #extremeworld
sadness	tweets	My friends tell me I'm pretty. Trigger tells my I'm ugly. I first was confused but then realised I'm both. Pretty ugly. #tru #sad #tumblr
sadness	tweets	But when my mom told me yesterday that it was looking grim and I started driving out there, I was told to turn around b/c she was too sick
sadness	tweets	Isn't the whole 'it's been hijacked' argument the same argument used to ban or discourage the display of the St George's Cross? Shame @LBC
sadness	tweets	I don't want the pity of my instructors but I'd like some understanding. I'm truly trying despite ALL circumstances that make me discouraged
sadness	tweets	@MHChat #mhchat Childhood experiences inform adult relationships. We have associative memories Not a question of ability to process #sadness
sadness	tweets	If Payet goes either in Jan or @ the seasons end, can't say I blame him. The boy must b so disheartened by what he's seeing at the mo.
sadness	tweets	@laureeenwillam can't cope wi her sour face and tiny pout 😡😡
sadness	tweets	There's many things I don't care about, and many things I do that I don't speak on because it's such a heaviness even when released...
sadness	tweets	@knology has providing customers w/equipment that doesn't deliver speeds of internet services that they have been charging.  #scam
sadness	tweets	@happyandbashful Flirt, simper, pout, repeat. Yuck.
sadness	tweets	@el_tityboi bc it's a gloomy day Tony
sadness	tweets	@rupindxr my heart actually sunk looooool I was so confused
sadness	tweets	@jack_haug_lifty @eable It's Ms btw. we were lied to by Remain. dry your remainer tears; Just accept you #lost
sadness	tweets	i cant stop. i finished - dejected. luckily no one is in the bathroom. so i go to a stall and wait until my pants are dry.
sadness	tweets	I wonder what would happen if I were a father. #weary
sadness	tweets	@AmyMek this is so absurd I could laugh right now (if I also didn't feel like crying for the future of our country). #despair #wakeupcall
sadness	tweets	@MxJackMonroe I couldn't get on with it either. Bits started drooping that shouldn't droop. GP said mooncup alone to blame.
sadness	tweets	@TaylaStJames it happens and Vegas isn't the only origin thats prevelant #sadly
sadness	tweets	I'll just have to #eat my way to #sobriety. This'll be a hell of a journey back to #sober
sadness	tweets	When you have 15 doe run the opposite side of you 🙁
sadness	tweets	@Theshadeshit91 \nOh, I'm sorry about it, do not be sad yourself there is nothing important in the world to grieve about it
sadness	tweets	Because of 'failure of delivery on time', a customer has to pay 16K rupees more! - Not good @tiagotatamotors @TataMotors #unhappy
sadness	tweets	@everton_de_leon @sterushton Genuinely grim stuff. Over a century of history sold off by some porn baron twats for a minty new stadium. Urgh
sadness	tweets	It's sad when your man leaves work a little bit late and your worst fear is 'Oh no!! Did he get stopped by the police?!?! '  #ourworld
sadness	tweets	@CCTakato at least in crystal every part of it is portrayed as being WRONG, the dark atmosphere, the fact that mamoru is brainwashed
sadness	tweets	Way too cool to die young, way too young to die sober.. #tunechi
sadness	tweets	@RevTrevK @Wolfman93011 @Daraidernation @EROCKhd Take 2k out of it the numbers on madden are low and have dropped and people are unhappy
sadness	tweets	I have no clue where my charger is... #lost
sadness	tweets	@JohnRMoffitt This is the most grim piece of laughter I was stricken with all day.
sadness	tweets	Some moving clips on youtube tonight of the vigil held at Tulsa Metropolitan Baptist church for #TerenceCruther #justice #anger #sadness
sadness	tweets	Having a nail half hanging off is absolutely fucking grim, even with my acrylic holding it on 😷😷
sadness	tweets	Lost: Geelong football team. \nLast seen entering through the banner not sure where they've been since... #unhappy #playwithsomeheart
sadness	tweets	@deshbhakthoon always unhappy and easily offended.
sadness	tweets	What a sad day...1st day of Fall...I don't dislike Fall...I just LOVE Summer #FirstDayofFall #goodbyesummer #sadness #bathingsuitsforever
sadness	tweets	@tgshepherdvan I'm not there yet. Hasn't sunk in yet. Rest up.
sadness	tweets	Awareness of time is awareness of time lost. #awareness #time #lost
sadness	tweets	@ImpugnValkyrie *I frown and cup your cheeks in my hands after you step aside.* Angela I care about you. And I don't know how else I can -
sadness	tweets	Gonna be a loooooong year as a Browns fan. Longer than normal and that's #sad
sadness	tweets	@TalesofanAlfa @David_Milloy \nI like your thinking...but sadly no - that's the shed 😢
sadness	tweets	When the sadness leaves you broken in your bed, I will hold you in the depths of your despair, and it's all in the name of love 🎶
sadness	tweets	Theyve substituted the hood for a badge and gun.' Public opinion is indictment of Charlotte police. #dark #sadtimes #america #race
sadness	tweets	@MCFCDenver doing the exact same minus the beer sadly
sadness	tweets	i miss the guy who always make me sulk
sadness	tweets	Let us not burden our remembrances with a heaviness that's gone.\n- William Shakespeare (1564-1616)\n#forge ahead.
sadness	tweets	Cause fail or pass I refuse to be sober
sadness	tweets	@eehbahmum WHY?! Did they want to make you plummet in to the depths of despair??
sadness	tweets	@NewYorker @donlemon Trump presidency-a dark age for the USA and the world. He would most definitely take us to war. Short &amp; Long term pain
sadness	tweets	So unbelievably discouraged with music as of late. Incredibly behind on Completing my album. Not digging this at all.
sadness	tweets	Hennessey - dreadful. Mutch - is he even on the pitch? Fryers - out of his depth unfortunately. #CPFC
sadness	tweets	if you're unhappy with someone just fucking tell them you're unhappy and leave. Don't go fuckin around with other people on the side
sadness	tweets	conflicting reports on mama #RitaMarley health,mannn and i woke up today feeling like mi ole self(rejoice!!)now dis #sadness
sadness	tweets	How can you blame the manager watching these players play? It's abysmal. Our team are dreadful. If Jose can't save us. No-one can.  #mufc
sadness	tweets	The Sorrow is grim reminder of how bad I can be at video games and how I could get a bit too trigger happy at times. RIP #MGS3
sadness	tweets	Im kind of confused.  The one thing i do right now has a great future, but on the other hand so does the new thing . #lost #needhelp
sadness	tweets	@V_of_Europe @ckolacia MSM relentlessly saying DT can't win to: depress GOP turnout &amp; provide cover 4 stolen election!
sadness	tweets	The voice is all about Miley and Alicia this year. No longer about the contestants. #sad @thevoice
sadness	tweets	@chocorobos I have this one so I'm not so sad.. but wtf
sadness	tweets	Right i may be an #sufc fan and the football maybe shit but marcos rojo for #mufc has had a shocking start he's just dreadful
sadness	tweets	I get discouraged because I try for 5 fucking years a contact with Lady Gaga but are thousands of tweets, how she would see my tweet? :(
sadness	tweets	@big_SL8 Show some respect, that's all...  If u havent go to war u cant say anything.. U havent lost friends and mates on war, so Ahut it!!
sadness	tweets	Had to give up on The Blue Guitar, couldn't stand main character. Sort of skim-read to the end which got grim and unsettling . . . 1/2
sadness	tweets	First a coat. Now a pair of sunglasses. Next it'll be a limb. #lost
sadness	tweets	Some of these people at this protest are just there for the adrenaline rush. #depressing
sadness	tweets	whenever i pout i just want Adrian to appear and tell me to stop pouting or else
sadness	tweets	And there is despair underneath each and every action \nEach and every attempt to pierce the armour of numbness ' -Mgla
sadness	tweets	Please bear with me, I'm not Twitter savvy😝 in real life I'm a Facebook person. Help me gain followers 🤓#blog #selfhelp #depression
sadness	tweets	she's always so insensitive whenever i grieve idgi
sadness	tweets	@stevesingiser @POLITICO_Steve Put a damper on my mood.
sadness	tweets	We lost
sadness	tweets	@FantasyGuruSite I knew you were going to do that. I would definitely buy if I didn't live in Texas where you can't play DFS. ... so depress
sadness	tweets	Romero is fucking dreadful like seriously my 11 month old is better than him.
sadness	tweets	One step forward, two steps backward, the link to RogerFedererShop doesn´t work.😰 I am losing hope about Roger Federer new Website #sadness
sadness	tweets	My friends tell me I'm pretty. Trigger tells my I'm ugly. I first was confused but then realised I'm both. Pretty ugly. #tru  #tumblr
sadness	tweets	From what I know of the man, I have to assume that @realDonaldTrump has had a heated argument with his own penis. #sad
sadness	tweets	@DoubleEph sadly his best days are behind him
sadness	tweets	@groovydadad @MHChat 🙂ty I often conflate the two depression + sadness, but they are very different. This q reminded me of that #mhchat
sadness	tweets	Don't let the behavior of others destroy ur inner peace.' -Dalai Lama @OWNTV #healing #depression #anxiety #intuition #meditation #book
sadness	tweets	@AerLingus #business class #Los Angeles to Dublin #destroyed luggage #60 day customer response time #unhappy customer
sadness	tweets	@JlKelly1 @FJ_Berry I've got #teampaella presents on their way for you and Fi but I don't think they'll arrive by Saturday sadly!! ;)
sadness	tweets	stg I been in pine bluff all morning and to piss me off even more, my damn shoes came in as a size 4!!!!!! I KNOW I SAID 6🙄🙄🙄🙄 FML
sadness	tweets	@Ashleyavitia_ don't leave me
sadness	tweets	@PaulJonMilne too grim, too insanely, determined to hurt you from
sadness	tweets	@comicfire The thing is, it's either I be unproductive and unhappy, or deal with some videos that do badly.
sadness	tweets	@keyshamackie it's fucking dreadful for live footy matches
sadness	tweets	Eating an egg is grim, you are eating the material embodiment of a fart and an unborn chick
sadness	tweets	you never call me when your sober
sadness	tweets	come on let's make em hate 😘make em pout they face 👿😩.
sadness	tweets	@Jacqueline_69 haha! She did well today. I can't get beyond her pout annoying me I'm afraid.
sadness	tweets	Hope was an instinct only the reasoning human mind could kill. An animal never knew despair.
sadness	tweets	Patti seems so sad. She stamped and ran behind the sofa. We will have to give her plenty of love and affection...more than usual.
sadness	tweets	Dylon felt dejected. He has a dejected aunt!
sadness	tweets	Two blankets, a hoody, and still no Eternal Sunshine to mope to.
sadness	tweets	Once I have sent a pitch to a brand I close all tabs relevant to them instantly. Thats the kind of detachment I create for myself. #serious
sadness	tweets	Nature looks a lot greener on gloomy dayz
sadness	tweets	@JamesWickham Congratulations!  My top home-owning tip: try not to look at your mortgage balance too often.  The slowness will depress you.
sadness	tweets	The new lock sound is grim
sadness	tweets	Nothings #Working-you're feeling your life's on The Edge_Could go either way #lost all reason for #Living-JesusChristHealsSavesASK #fatloss
sadness	tweets	@khloe_speaks sad music
sadness	tweets	Think Val might be going this week. I'll have to take the rest of the week off work to mourn. I'm sure they'll understand. #GBBO
sadness	tweets	3 weeks into the course and have had the kitchen sink thrown at me, I m still pulling knives and forks out of my ears
sadness	tweets	Gaaaaaaaad! Should have stayed in London!
sadness	tweets	@marksandspencer Where has your 50% grapefruit squash gone,not been able to get for weeks #unhappy
sadness	tweets	I mourn the creativity lost.
sadness	tweets	@Jinath_Hyder I can't have alcohol on it, sadly, but it only flares up under very specific circumstances so I just need to be more careful
sadness	tweets	Add Donte Moncrief to my dismal situation #blessed.
sadness	tweets	Shoutout to the drunk man on the bus who pissed in a bottle and on the seats #grim
sadness	tweets	U know u have too much on ur mind when u find yourself cleaning a stove and kitchen by yourself  at almost 3am...  #pensive
sadness	tweets	@TxDMV @ArkansasBBB i filled out the report on #baitswitch by @Carvana lets go get them fines levied. #badbusiness #honoryourdeal #unhappy
sadness	tweets	Itching something #serious RN haven't slept but considering taking like 6 Benadryl for a 20 min nap I am itching SO BADLY wow
sadness	tweets	@TVsCarlKinsella They're such garbage. Obviously I like that they suck but it's still grim to watch.
sadness	tweets	For a team as big as Bayern and the they like to play football, their pitch is fucking dreadful. Certainly no Emirates pitch anyway.
sadness	tweets	Angry shouting match between a #pessimist &amp; an #optimist:\n'You're a half empty-headed @%$!' \n'You're half full of @%$!'
sadness	tweets	*Still waits for Yang. Guess she really needs her sleep or something. Kittens feeling kinda dejected right now.* #Offline
sadness	tweets	@OnesOwnGrief Just a shame his world was gloom from day one almost.Though it makes sense he'd have the whole part hydra,part s.h.i.e.l.d(c)
sadness	tweets	How do u grieve someone who legally wasn't a person yet?
sadness	tweets	It's so gloomy outside. I wish it was as cold as it looked
sadness	tweets	@British_Airways #lost #bag #stillwaiting go home in2days. DM'd you my info and have rung 9times a day. What more can I do? #wheresmybag
sadness	tweets	When you saw a t-shirt with the phrase 'My mind is a dangerous place to be' and you would like to buy, but in Italy don't sell it. #sadness
sadness	tweets	My nephew sees that i have a frown on my face and he tells me 'you're  beautiful '!😢💞😩
sadness	tweets	Trying to take what's lost and broken and make it right
sadness	tweets	@LondonMidland #dobetter only two carriages on 14:49 Birmingham to Hereford no room to stand anymore Friday commute #unhappy
sadness	tweets	It's become a verb. 'I'm gonna Villaseñor all those old contacts I don't need anymore.' #sadness @melissavcomedy #waitingforexplanation
sadness	tweets	@HillaryClinton @TheDemocrats It's ok 2 be disgusted or dishearten with presidential race but don't let that stop u from voting IT MATTERS
sadness	tweets	5am blues while riding a cab home:\n- my belly is much bigger than the rest of my body\n- but i couldnt be preggy\n- how to lose it in a day
sadness	tweets	Ill say it again. If I was a Black man Id be afraid to leave my house or have a moving violation.\n\n #TerranceCrutcher #truth
sadness	tweets	@narcissusheiyan  maybe it'd have been different if I stayed for sixth form? But still, the oppressive architecture, uninteresting people
sadness	tweets	@WYSdaily I'm confident they will NEVER experience our successes of last 50yrs. Best they can hope for is to be another Bournemouth #sad
sadness	tweets	What's good is that we already hit rock bottom, even though I'm about two more seasons away from new depths of despair. #playoffs? #NJDevils
sadness	tweets	Absolutely can not believe the generosity pouring out for us, but Id give everything I have for Nick to be healthy and happy. #lost
sadness	tweets	i got his bitch depress
sadness	tweets	@Groupon_UK who do I contact about a shocking experience with Clear Sky Holidays booked through you guys?? #customerservicefail #dreadful
sadness	tweets	@cotsonika @NHL well, they should all be unhappy for the way they played.  Right @fmjacob ??
sadness	tweets	@simslover163 I guess it must be really expensive... For me it's that the whole family stayed in Poland, so I really miss them...
sadness	tweets	Regret for the things we did can be tempered by time; it is regret for the things we did not do that is inconsolable.  Sydney J. Harris
sadness	tweets	untypical kinda Friday #dull
sadness	tweets	My oldest cat pisses me off. She's always been weary of Kennen (senile kinda), but recently shes been sweet. Until she attacked and bit him.
sadness	tweets	@WestermannNina xDD it's a song that can not be weary (?)
sadness	tweets	Feels grim not having your nails done
sadness	tweets	How could such a crooked,stuck up,delusional,dim&amp; #dark hearted dud be surprised losing&amp;prob also ppl won't let their crimes drop! #nwo imo
sadness	tweets	That AK47 leave your spine with a frown
sadness	tweets	a good shorty has so much to offer &amp; it's sad that some of you niggas don't even see it when she right in front of your face and too late
sadness	tweets	@theJeremyVine Noel Edmonds reckons a cat he's talking to is stressed because of the uncertainty over #GBBO future!?!? #plot #lost
sadness	tweets	One way ticket to the blues.
sadness	tweets	@SWP_Roads   How dull.
sadness	tweets	@thehill George H. Establishment is unhappy Trump's campaign branded his son low-energy, but he could not have beaten the others either.
sadness	tweets	Marcus Roho is dreadful
sadness	tweets	Im kind of confused.  The one thing i do right now has a great future, but on the other hand so does the new thing .  #needhelp
sadness	tweets	Finished writing my second book tonight. #somber #sad #youpromised #havemercy #author #writer #needpublisher #beingedited #workingonsidebook
sadness	tweets	@ArcadianLuthier -- taking out his feelings on Kei unfairly. His lips form a frown as he tries to walk away.
sadness	tweets	@DeltaAssist Tried 2 get earlier flt 2day  @BWI Turnd away bcuz it was 2 late Then agent let other pas on #silvereliteleftbehind
sadness	tweets	Thank God she warned me before I walked to that sink cause lord knows I would've been sick to my stomach and would've wanted to sue lbvfs
sadness	tweets	So now... yeah. I'm home again.\nStill feeling mixed up inside &amp; kinda gloomy. But a little more optimistic that I'll figure this out.
sadness	tweets	penny dreadful just cleaved off a fraction of my heart
sadness	tweets	@fitzstockcharts Gundlach calling for rounding top, doom and gloom, 15% down move
sadness	tweets	Everything is far away because time is short, no rest for the weary.
sadness	tweets	@chelseafc let them know it's the #blues
sadness	tweets	We want to help you with your #depression. Give our office a call to learn how #TMS may be the treatment you've been waiting for!
sadness	tweets	@AliceGoodman17 i dunno, I'm getting less of the spacious lovely autumnal melancholy from our present apocalypse
sadness	tweets	Got paid to vacuum up rat poop. (-: never a dull day in the biology department ...
sadness	tweets	#Terencecutcher #Tulsa the man onthe helicopter said he looks like a bad dude, that is the problem, when they see black they see bad,
sadness	tweets	@pandaflo22 We are sadden by this because we always strive to bring the best service to our customer. We will always be here for you. CM
sadness	tweets	Someone needs to tell Candice she'll be stuck with that shitty pout if the wind changes. #GBBO
sadness	tweets	When health insurance won't cover TMS but they let me know they cover ECT #mentalhealth #psychology  #TMS #ECT
sadness	tweets	@PurpleReplisol meden is frowning at you with her non existent face
sadness	tweets	@realDonaldTrump negative campaign of doom and gloom don't win elections
sadness	tweets	if you have been on depression too u shouldn't be judging him and exposing him to everyone, but helping him
sadness	tweets	@mattwruff sadly there is constitutional RIGHT to have abortion. Yet there is constitutional RIGHT to life. Safety net protects those rights
sadness	tweets	@HeyCaraJay I am inconsolable at this GIF in context
sadness	tweets	@StarklyDark 'Come here. Come on. Into my arms. I'm not going anywhere, Tony, I swear.' Steve told him, quiet and solemn.
sadness	tweets	Lisa: Getting what you want all the time will ultimately leave you unfulfilled and joyless.
sadness	tweets	@harowe this sad truth!
sadness	tweets	@questlove when are people going to realize that these 'riots' are just perpetuating hate. Saying you're going to boycott a city!?! #lost
sadness	tweets	Don't wanna go to work but I want the money
sadness	tweets	@ManUtd Rooney needs to come off! Absolutely dreadful! 🙈🙈🙈 class goal from @carras16 @carras16 showing why he should be in the team!!
sadness	tweets	Y'all tune into Snapchat for Beans funereal
sadness	tweets	At my funeral, when they close the casket, I want them to play, 'Call recording has completed.'' -@GlenEwing #lost #podcasting #talkshoe
sadness	tweets	@RyhenMessedUp goodbye despair
sadness	tweets	Ffs dreadful defending
sadness	tweets	@raylewis name change Uncle Remus Lewis #foh #theydontlikeyoueither #lost #unwoke
sadness	tweets	the waitress recognised me from last time i was in there moping, after my interview haha
sadness	tweets	What day is it #lost
sadness	tweets	Has anyone noticed that @npr stories in recent days all paint positive accomplishments for Trump and challenges for Hillary? #surprised #sad
sadness	tweets	@ChibiReviews Post series depression can be quite bad, but it will get better, I bet someone will pick the novel soon in the west.
sadness	tweets	@iTriborg — make him feel vigorous. 'Fine. You can kill me now.' Said Hestia with a display of only despair rather than her joyful —
sadness	tweets	236:416 While she was in her dull and sleeping hour,\nA crew of patches, rude mechanicals,\n#AMNDBots
sadness	tweets	The 2nd step to beating #anxiety or #depression is realising that it's not about waiting for ...., Take action yourself now.
sadness	tweets	@SimonSSSJ123 @EllieG10853 @Onision @Eugenia_Cooney he sure as hell helped me with my depression and still does
sadness	tweets	@jccrocker #CharlotteProtest do u #wait 4 the facts #video or do u #hate now ask questions later  #protest #PoliceShootings #suggestions
sadness	tweets	@Nataliem55 sadly, war has often been the factor that jump starts US economic growth
sadness	tweets	@GrimsToyShow grim what the fuck going on with these dame fucking clowns takeing the gameing channel if I had a way to nj I would delete
sadness	tweets	Leeds surely to drop the prices for that cup tie, rather than the dismal attendance last night..
sadness	tweets	@greencapt there's something to note in the fact that the mask manufacturer produced her smiling and him frowning.
sadness	tweets	The word happiness would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness.
sadness	tweets	@TouchPH  The solution is to punish the criminals. That's the only way to discourage crime. or the circle will continue.
sadness	tweets	@KristenWACamera I really enjoyed both episodes. I had a bit of a gloomy day today but I feel a sense of inspiration from listening.
sadness	tweets	1Pet 4:7  But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore #sober, and #watch unto prayer
sadness	tweets	@aidanparr haha!! No, sorry was it too grim even for you?! It disturbed me &amp; im starting to lose all trust in Twitter generally!!
sadness	tweets	Literally had a guy (a some-would-say-successful guy) tell me 'this ship will sail' kay guy, first, you're working with a sub, last, it sunk
sadness	tweets	@RaveenElexiis I fought a racist girl and she stayed in GAVC so if you get kicked out I call BS
sadness	tweets	How brave are the young individuals that have opened up to us about their #depression and #anxiety to help raise awareness!! @beyondblue
sadness	tweets	Just rough situations all around for Schalke and Werder Bremen to start the campaign. Bremen dashed late with a new manager. Both with 0.
sadness	tweets	Don't blame yourself,' he spoke, as if she were in the room, kicking the chair beneath him.\n#amwriting #dark
sadness	tweets	@ActualFlatticus @veggie64_leslie @mtracey Call me a pessimist, but I don't think therapy can fix whatever is wrong with Anthony Weiner.
sadness	tweets	November #canola lost $5.50 to $464.20 per tonne.
sadness	tweets	@ticcikasie1 With a frown, she let's out a distraught 'Gardevoir' saying that she wishes she had a trainer
sadness	tweets	Brad Pitt being investigated for child abuse?! this all just got really #dark
sadness	tweets	Bare videos online but does anyone get rehabilitated? Does anyone actually get help for their affliction? Or do we jut get twitter videos.
sadness	tweets	Always do sober what you said you'd do drunk. That will teach you to keep your mouth shut. \n― Ernest Hemingway #quote
sadness	tweets	[My teeth were sunk down into the vein of the poor woman who had 'accidentally' had a small problem with her engine, just outside of --
sadness	tweets	@lebara - worst possible decision I could have made when arriving in the UK. Shocking service. Poor coverage.
sadness	tweets	lost my 244 day snapchat streak i'm done
sadness	tweets	@ReserveHinata tend to them he's going to get infections. \n\nHe's frowning and looking down as he does this. \nIt must hurt damn.]
sadness	tweets	@EmotionalLimine you're sadly mistaken if you think I'd make a tweet for an isolated comment by a random twitter user.
sadness	tweets	@ATTCares why do I have 2 wait 48 hours to call YOU back to cancel an order I JUST placed after already spending 2 hours on the phone?!
sadness	tweets	i stopped watching gotham cause they dropped off tabitha and barb's relationship and made her pine after the main
sadness	tweets	@_JuliaSteiner : I liked that she was not moping around in all of the episode. She had a moment of emotional weakness, felt sorry about -
sadness	tweets	@WYSdaily I'm confident they will NEVER experience our successes of last 50yrs. Best they can hope for is to be another Bournemouth
sadness	tweets	Never leave me alone with my credit card. Nope nope mope.
sadness	tweets	@SandraTXAS @6bird4 @CajunKangaroo @justanavywife please. Or you could be clouded by your passion. Emotion leads you from the truth.
sadness	tweets	The horrible puns for the day have been made. I shall return to my cage in a dark corner by myself while crying &amp; laughing hysterical now.
sadness	tweets	My house isnt always a mess but when it is, its when i have friends coming #mess #serious #twitter #problem #like #friends #filthy #home
sadness	tweets	“We can easily #forgive a #child who is #afraid of the #dark; the real #tragedy of #life is when #men are #afraid of the #light.”–Plato
sadness	tweets	@DxfyingGrxvity - that were rather forlorn, scanning the witches house before resting back on Elphie. 'The Grimmerie is gone.'
sadness	tweets	@FacMagnaAmerica  #CureForInsomnia And the left said WE were all doom &amp; gloom. The Trump Train is so much more fun!
sadness	tweets	History repeating itself..GAA is our culture how dare anyone think it's ok to discourage any Irish person from attending any match or final
sadness	tweets	Mayor visits downtrodden part o town in brave PR stunt. More at eleven.
sadness	tweets	went to Pet Supplies Plus tonight but @neitzkeamara was not working I feel #lost and #confused
sadness	tweets	@mik61scot @longshankseddie @ROSAZAMBONINI @YouTube I thought it was because she once sunk her teeth into something that's meant 2b sooked
sadness	tweets	@VivYau is it all doom and gloom? I only want to hear lovely things about airbnb!
sadness	tweets	@ynnsanity Maybe that's why, we're asked to study hard and get a job that we like. That way it wouldn't be that dreadful.
sadness	tweets	@Cpt_SRogers_\n'Well it can go one of two ways. You either get over it and accept it, because it's not going to change, or you mope about --
sadness	tweets	@CarrieLynne2323 totally get it. When you've said no to donuts 13 times one week and lost 0.3 lbs you get discouraged! But it's not linear 😘
sadness	tweets	You don't know how to love me when you're sober #sober #selenagomez #revival
sadness	tweets	@SkyNews err I wasnt gloomy.  17.2 mio people were not gloomy only #remain were #Brexit
sadness	tweets	@coalese 😂😂😂. Sure half these stars get together,break up,have affairs,let porn vids slip out,fight,ect etc all to up there ratings. #sad 😂
sadness	tweets	Im so serious about putting words in my mouth bitch don't add ' the ' to my sentence if I didn't say that shit on bloods
sadness	tweets	@theflabar It's a #foggy and #dark morning here - so #filter this time.  For #lighting purposes. :)
sadness	tweets	What do you do?'\n'You are not worthy enough to know.' #what #serious
sadness	tweets	If a friend lost his/her phone, how long do they have to mourn their lost phones before you ask for their earpiece?
sadness	tweets	@LucidBurrito Doesnt do it to anyone else, he literally pulled me into the office cause someone complained I spit in the sink yesterday
sadness	tweets	Why doesn't anybody I know watch penny dreadful? ☹️️
sadness	tweets	Am a very old person I can't handle some stuff....lol I just left her there.... Get back to me when you're sober
sadness	tweets	@BTS_twt people have so much negativity filled inside them but im always happy that in such a gloomy world someone like u exists Namjoon
sadness	tweets	. @UNFCCC @uncclearn The problem is the time it has taken to do this means its going to be out of date already. #sadly
sadness	tweets	Trying to think positive, and not let this situation discourage me ✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨✨
sadness	tweets	Candice on great british bake off with that pout does my head in 👊🏻🙄
sadness	tweets	@BBCSport too dull for the UK.
sadness	tweets	@LazyBoiSam blues... blues? 🤔
sadness	tweets	Sometimes I think the British political landscape is desolate and then I look over at the foaming wasteland of the US and think we're OK
sadness	tweets	@kikibug13 Don't look. You'll only be very, very unhappy. \n\n(NNGH. I got the email notif THANK YOU.)
sadness	tweets	Positive thoughts on these gloom cloudy days
sadness	tweets	When you're on a train as its pitch black outside and you have no idea where you are... #travel #whereami #lost #adventure
sadness	tweets	@Ren102e906 Just do what you can, don't get discouraged, maybe some prayers for divine intervention to help you would help :)
sadness	tweets	@Janet_Reid Wonderful post! Novelists shouldn't be discouraged by rejection, but they usually are because their work is so personal.
sadness	tweets	Cheap pout my brodcast
sadness	tweets	So I tried to give her time to sober up, while waiting at the our friend's house. 2 hours later, gal wake up out her nap to vomit again.
sadness	tweets	@alisontis otherwise you're committing a crime against your soul only sober ppl know what is good or bad for themselves
sadness	tweets	@rickygervais my first time in Slough so checked out the new station floor #sad #LifeOnTheRoad
sadness	tweets	Niggas murking in each other. In murky water, I try to swim.
sadness	tweets	@talkRobyn oh dear I have to watch this the woman with the pout did well
sadness	tweets	As I lost my heart to you there in the dark.. Underneath the stars 🎧
sadness	tweets	It's dark
sadness	tweets	$FOGO max pessimism here and no bottom (yet).  Has a solid PE ratio for a restaurant.  Let's catch it at 8 level or 10 level if it comes.
sadness	tweets	@ThatWhiteSoxFan @tbtrill not as sad as the White Sox playing record ;)
sadness	tweets	@BeeTuppy We're sorry to hear about the issues and how this is making you feel. We don't like to hear our customers being unhappy :-( We
sadness	tweets	and naoto nod she also like tha bands. but she also frown. 'Will the bands 'Papa Roach' be at concert...?'
sadness	tweets	@delhi_lawyer @BhagwanUvach @ShivAroor sad . This is not film story. Who knows could be ploy to escalate tension. Unverified report no hype
sadness	tweets	@Samkingftw nahh thats grim
sadness	tweets	It's my last week at CN! I'm gonna be sad to leave, but this will also be my first planned break since going into animation!
sadness	tweets	@AdamAaronovich Well, there's no need to sulk. You can always request a song, you know.
sadness	tweets	@BonesARP 'That is a disappointment.'\n\nHe fakes a pout, then starts to chuckle.
sadness	tweets	Shoutout to the drunk man on the bus who pissed in a bottle and on the seats
sadness	tweets	LORD MAKE ME AN INSTRUMENT OF YOUR PEACE — Where there's hate, let me sow love — Where there's injury, pardon — Where there's despair, hope
sadness	tweets	@VileBairn Turning then, the older woman looked at Sybil with a most somber expression. \n\n“She ran away from me. But I cannot blame her.”
sadness	tweets	An hour played and @ASFCofficial have conceded less at West ham than @ManUtd have at northampton.  Let that sink in.
sadness	tweets	some people leave toilets in fucking grim states
sadness	tweets	@jeremycorbyn @magstogether my god is @jeremycorbyn a full shilling? Seriously you need a major rethink or no lab gove in your lifetime
sadness	tweets	NL's top bureaucrat is a director of a group formed to oppose NL's top megaproject. #nlpoli - never dull
sadness	tweets	@jwonder81 @MacadamionNut well of course.Progress for the sake of progress must be discouraged. The problem is the substance of the rhetoric
sadness	tweets	Already plotting next steps if I get cut off by the same minivan in tomorrow's drop-off line. #preschoolpolitics #momthings #serious
sadness	tweets	The Sunderland time line is quite funny with all the doom &amp; gloom in facing us and the long trip to us midweek. #whatgoesaroundcomesaround
sadness	tweets	@Gsmsbooksrus @goodreads 'so shines a good deed in a weary world' Roald Dahl, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
sadness	tweets	Like keep grinding boy your life can change in one year, and even when it's dark out the sun is shining somewhere...'
sadness	tweets	@EllenMellon_88 Got #mybrokenfoot running Great North Run, can't wait to run again in a few months time - be mostly dark then! #ukrunchat
sadness	tweets	Awareness of time is awareness of time lost. #awareness #time
sadness	tweets	the ending of how I met your mother is dreadful
sadness	tweets	@JoyceCarolOates \nBreath. You are trending despondent. Mrs Clinton will win. If you keep your gloves on, guard up, and punch like hell.
sadness	tweets	@A_RockasThe U.S. has added years to the Syrian conflict by arming the 'rebel' army. You would think that Iraq had sunk in with Kerry.
sadness	tweets	When we are weak &amp; in despair, our Mighty God is near;He will give us strength &amp; joy &amp; hope, &amp; calm our inner fear, just have faith &amp; trust.
sadness	tweets	Been working in Blanchardstown shopping centre for over 2 years now and I only figured out today where Marks &amp; Spencer's is #lost
sadness	tweets	#vinb I'm alot more interested in hearing bout differences between parties political ideologies. Parties murky origins r irrefutable #vinb
sadness	tweets	Higginbotham's flippant dismissal of any worries around Carrick's lack of pace is dismal. Against nimble midfielders Carrick will be exposed
sadness	tweets	Flight 815 crashed on The Lost Island 2004 #lost @JoshuaJThurston
sadness	tweets	@littlebakaa @AlcohoIPorn give me a smiling emoticon will ya? i dont like the idea of you frowning &gt;.&lt;
sadness	tweets	The man who is a pessimist before 48 knows too much; if he is an optimist after it, he knows too little.'\n-Mark Twain
sadness	tweets	@DaltonRapattoni sadly i have to go to bed now don't announce anything while i'm gone thank u i love you
sadness	tweets	@MSNBC @fox @cnn @realDonaldTrump @HillaryClinton. Using fear to state his views. Not getting the facts before making a serious statement???
sadness	tweets	Marcos rojo plays for man united !!  Just let that sink in !!!
sadness	tweets	Sometimes people leave you halfway through the wood. Do not let it grieve you, no one leaves for good. #youarenotalone #nooneisalone
sadness	tweets	i lost my wallet lol.... again....
sadness	tweets	What's a Kali's kitten? [She asked, a frown curling on her fair skinned forehead as he showed her the scar] A cat did - (@ScarredTiger)
sadness	tweets	@ksmitely @CitizenMeh I feel strongly that we need to work together to right this dreadful wrong.
sadness	tweets	@raylewis name change Uncle Remus Lewis #foh #theydontlikeyoueither  #unwoke
sadness	tweets	Sister: (Canadian player does something shady.) Jonathan Toews is frowning and he doesn't know why. #WorldCupOfHockey
sadness	tweets	Candice's pout gets more preposterous by the week. This week it's gone a bit Jack Nicholson's Joker. #GBBO
sadness	tweets	@MHChat #mhchat Childhood experiences inform adult relationships. We have associative memories Not a question of ability to process
sadness	tweets	@TehShockwave turn that grumpy frown upside-down\n\nYou did something next to impossible today
sadness	tweets	I have serious problems with the expectation that private philanthropy should replace functional government services...this is dangerous
sadness	tweets	@LidlUK Just bought a pack of two medallion beef steaks. Got home. Cooked them. One steak is 100% pork. I had one unhappy mother. 🐮🐷
sadness	tweets	Hopefully next time we play a L1 team, 1 of the players scores, takes his shirt off &amp;jumps into away end purely to wind up the joyless cunts
sadness	tweets	Life's too short to be frowning for so long
sadness	tweets	A Leopard never changes its spots! #lost
sadness	tweets	In need of a serious nap rn
sadness	tweets	Sky news still pushing the Brexit gloom line, managing to ignore the fact it's simply not happening. 'But in the future.....'
sadness	tweets	@DrSRSheikh: And who asked you to gate crash with your dumb idiosyncrasies when sober people are analyzing a situation!\n@BanoBee @AK_Forty7
sadness	tweets	A pessimist is someone who, when opportunity knocks, complains about the noise.
sadness	tweets	@lee_family5 @USAneedsTRUMP @HillaryClinton @realDonaldTrump You can't be serious. This man practices no religion. Only in church campaignin
sadness	tweets	@JohnWildy71 something, too confused to type an entire word 😜 See, I can laugh again. My hour of sadness has almost passed
sadness	tweets	@jenhasonen it is supposed to be #dark and #gritty though
sadness	tweets	This pretentious dick in Night Gallery just fucking, used a towel to dry off his sink
sadness	tweets	That's me for the evening, though! Way too lit to finish these off properly without causing some serious mischief.
sadness	tweets	Interview preparation, I hate talking about myself, one dull subject matter! #yawnoff
sadness	tweets	@duncantrussell does Remo Williams ever actually 'save' anyone or does he just sulk around killing random undesirables ?
sadness	tweets	@JoaquinPutoAmo vas a ir al de the amaity affliction?
sadness	tweets	@Fatumoriginal there's no sitcom better! If u can't laugh at Sheldon or Leonard then u are sober for real! No two ways about it
sadness	tweets	“The immense importance of football is sometimes scary. When you don’t win you are responsible for so many unhappy people.” - Arsene Wenger
sadness	tweets	Kudos to TC for benching Bruce. He isn't helping the team, so he rides pine. We have games to win. Discussion over. #Mets
sadness	tweets	People want me to go pine ridge, little wound or Oelrichs. Starting to think about transferring but I wanna stay at cloud. Decisions man.
sadness	tweets	Cam cannot be serious with that IG post and that stupid ass font he uses. Would've been better to just say nothing.
sadness	tweets	@VosachResrus ^'ll just #wobble carry you #sink
sadness	tweets	No episode today! Whilst editing there was a power outage! We will rebuild...tomorrow #podcast #lost #editing #fail #tomorrow
sadness	tweets	@10carley what a sulky pants!
sadness	tweets	Seeing something that hurt so much in the past in front of me now and not a single sign of grieve. Magicalllll.  ✨
sadness	tweets	I'm done with your piano, blues playing, smooth talking ass. On to the nexttt
sadness	tweets	were sat in my sat room cloved watchin Manchester Unide @ManUtd v Norffampton do you fink but @WayneRooney is still goal fret at iced level
sadness	tweets	It is a solemn thing, and no small scandal in the Kingdom, to see God’s children starving while seated at the Father’s table. -AW Tozer
sadness	tweets	Hey @AppleSupport - how do I find my play history on new #ios10 #appleMusic #music #lost
sadness	tweets	Do not grow weary in doing good. The treadlines are better than deadlines.' @billclinton #CGI2016
sadness	tweets	Fellaini has been playing ahead of this guy...just let that sink in
sadness	tweets	@SatansLezzie @gehrig38 @joesmith12431 @ejamesl I think he was huffing that pine tar they use for bat gripping.
sadness	tweets	Gonna be a loooooong year as a Browns fan. Longer than normal and that's
sadness	tweets	@RossKemp great programme tonight  #upsetting #extremeworld
sadness	tweets	Just told me wife there was a chance it would be 2 Sydney teams in AFL grand final. Her response: 'there's two SYDNEY AFL teams?' #serious
sadness	tweets	@MoneyJay901 hard to tell in your pic. My mistake then. Either way, nothing I said initially was about race. U took it there.  #ignorant
sadness	tweets	Floofel.i wonder if your mother knows how dark your humor can be.Needs to realize how much of a butt Apple is. Pastels and cats.cutie pie.
sadness	tweets	Damn gud #premiere #LethalWeapon...#funny and #serious
sadness	tweets	@sundersays made me laugh, that quote. In a sort of rueful way.
sadness	tweets	But When it come to a serious situation, I be glad I gave it deep thought 💯
sadness	tweets	All this doom and gloom! We scored from open play again! And only conceded two this time. #progress they means a 1-1 draw on Saturday for me
sadness	tweets	Contactless affliction kart are the needs must regarding the psychological moment!: xbeUJGB
sadness	tweets	@LBardugo Start w/ the 3 songs in Blue Neighborhood\n1) Wild\n2)Fools\n3)Talk Me down 😭😭for #Wesper\nAlso,\n4)Too Good.  #serious kaz/inej feelz
sadness	tweets	the grave of a beat, a bravehearted cave lover, cage lover, sage #lover who made #soup of you, twisted to spoony #melancholy, spikes, spices
sadness	tweets	Like, 'loon attic'. Luckily it quickly sunk in that it was the wrong pronunciation, but I still couldn't stop saying it. It just stuck.
sadness	tweets	I'm onto you, @Sargon_of_Akkad, I know you secretly pine for a masculine order, objective morality, and disciplined transcendent pursuits.
sadness	tweets	Some Erykah Badu to sedate me 💕
sadness	tweets	@MarGraham I am practically obsessed with it, the very thought of their departure makes me feel both melancholic and grateful.  Safe journey
sadness	tweets	Don't get discouraged when simple minds don't see your vision
sadness	tweets	#ThankYouCGI - Do not grow weary in doing good. #CGI2016
sadness	tweets	@jodikantor @nytimes only if YOU will pay for them and YOU will be responsible for them and their doings. #sober #real #blind
sadness	tweets	I'm too sober time to get shit faced
sadness	tweets	I don't want perfect. It's too boring and dull.
sadness	tweets	@LacesUntied_ yea lol catchy you fret
sadness	tweets	@TimewarpArcade @tenpencearcade Do you really have to pedal like a nutter to get anywhere? I remember it being more sedate.
sadness	tweets	AQW should've always stayed in the 08 art style, now it's just a competition to create more detailed art each time.
sadness	tweets	Pops are joyless, soulless toys which look nearly identical.  They are the perfect expression of consumerism.  'I enjoy this franchise'
sadness	tweets	@DinoHyogi Hakyeon takes all the attention happily, perching on Wonshik's shoulder to sulk when Jaehwan accidentally caused a tiny explosion
sadness	tweets	@m_giacchino will this be aired on radio or filmed? Lots of fans over the pond too! #wales #lost
sadness	tweets	there are #serious #chinks in #India’s #armour'\n#protein\n#malnutrition\n#feedingIndia\n#skillingIndia\n#cognitive #deficit\n@Abhijit_Iyer
sadness	tweets	From what I know of the man, I have to assume that @realDonaldTrump has had a heated argument with his own penis.
sadness	tweets	Standard Candice starting the show with a pout #startasyoumeantogoon #GBBO
sadness	tweets	@shopgreenwich #ldf16 what shall we do this weekend?  #spraypainting in #greenwichmarket with @SNUB23 #core246 #lilylou #fret &amp; #benoakley
sadness	tweets	@MendipHillsAONB do we think the swallows and swifts have gone? Photo'd 3 nights ago, not seen since.  #Autumn
sadness	tweets	@patthemanager how could I work with @chancetherapper . ? #serious
sadness	tweets	@marielleblaine8 @princesskeilani I told pine I didn't want it so I didn't have to have it
sadness	tweets	Why is it that we rejoice at a birth and grieve at a funeral? It is because we are not the person involved. ― Mark Twain
sadness	tweets	Now they fret about scuffs. I’ll take scuffs (which…come in) for a phone I can use wet handed or drop in a toilet any day.
sadness	tweets	So @JeffProbst those of us born in 85 have no generation! Where is the gen-less tribe! Ha! #survivor #lost soles
sadness	tweets	@MarianKeyes maybe he had constipation issues..? Not that I KNOW dates relieve such an affliction! No way jose!
sadness	tweets	Regret for the things we did can be tempered by time; it is regret for the things we did not do that is inconsolable. - Sydney J. Harris
sadness	tweets	Learning how to use twitter #lost
sadness	tweets	@TheRandomAnt @meg_m203 yeah, they figured that ornaments are way more wanted than spektar and desolate gear. Well they thought right.
sadness	tweets	Corbyn loses and I walk up to a crying Corbyn supporter and whisper\n\n'Don't mourn. Organise'\n\nAnd laugh and laugh
sadness	tweets	@Netflix_ME penny dreadful season 3?
sadness	tweets	#Always #borrow #money from a #pessimist. He won't #expect it #back.
sadness	tweets	-- used as a pawn in this red woman's game] For now, try not to fret and act as if nothing is amiss. This is a royal -- @TheLadyOfGlenco
sadness	tweets	@_noTORIEty lol senior year we would get early dismal for work study ,he was her boss and you know what happened next 🙃
sadness	tweets	In serious need of a nap
sadness	tweets	@rihaBabyJ Aw no problem. I just felt like speaking because I felt the same before and I want you to overcome it and not be discouraged. :)
sadness	tweets	@janhopis I found the first few episodes of Bojack incredibly funny. Then it got less funny but I stayed for the #drama
sadness	tweets	I don't know why everyone is pretending to be sad about angelina and brad, everyone knows his dumb ass should've stayed with jennifer.
sadness	tweets	@IMKristenBell @lauralittlelegs pine nut.... Chestnut....peanut....wait... Wrong film
sadness	tweets	Never switched up, stayed down this the same person since day one.
sadness	tweets	Do not grow weary of doing good' a lasting legacy @billclinton @ClintonGlobal #CGI2016 #thankfulmoment @ProjectThankful
sadness	tweets	And with rich Fumes his sullen sences cheer'd.
sadness	tweets	I told my chiropractor 'I'm here for a good time not a long time' when he questioned my habits and yet again I have unnerved a doctor
sadness	tweets	@Courteoussoul @MattyMcDee I'm at 349 and just decoded 20 or more blues and not one was over 340, where you getting your blues?
sadness	tweets	First weekend of fall; let's see if I can stay disciplined to this seasons goals. #fitness #running #sober #Mindset #firstfriday #family
sadness	tweets	Some #people already talks about #Halloween \nYou'll get some #dark #music to go with it\n#gothic #bloody #HalloweenHorrorNights
sadness	tweets	@KhoroshiySoldat --prepared.\n\n'Not as far as I know.' was her dull reply. 'There are still survivors, members from it. Like I said,-/
sadness	tweets	@BookOfKaells @quennell3_ no blues?!
sadness	tweets	In the name of our Lord &amp; Saviour Harambe we pray, bless all apes across the world.\n\nHear our solemn oaths and pardon sympathetic hominids.
sadness	tweets	@msfang they say you attract what you see, maybe I shouldn't be a pessimist but I don't wanna take any chances lol can't wait to relocate
sadness	tweets	Bro Why pine green forget me nots are mediumpurple pickering is not lit and so on
sadness	tweets	@JonathanHatfull I’ll look forward to it. Hoping for lots of stetson-tilting and rueful looks into whiskey glasses.
sadness	tweets	there’s shaytan in this room wallahi its been dark all the time now the lamp is on!! omg shaytan
sadness	tweets	@UltimateBoxer My heart because you left me for so long again\n\n*slight pout but it turned to a smile*\n\nheheh just kidding, no I'm fine-
sadness	tweets	@Bietron 🤓 dont be sad.. btw good night davina..go sleep larh..
sadness	tweets	Refuge Recovery Boston - Weds 7:30-9 pm. #healing #support #addiction #recovery #buddhism #meditation #sober #cambma #meeting #harvardsq
sadness	tweets	More #checking at #work today\n\n#coffee #drank and now it's #down to some #serious #business \n\n#Thursday bring on #Friday
sadness	tweets	Somehow 90% of the sausage in this pasta I made sunk to the bottom so I'm eating sausage with a tiny bit of leftover pasta
sadness	tweets	@holly_lolly7 I just have serious respect for any man that can pull off a bun better than I can, like maybe they can teach me their ways.
sadness	tweets	Transparency and openness ' is a dull sell for a fans group - want more verbs like buying, defending, building and securing.
sadness	tweets	Has anyone noticed that @npr stories in recent days all paint positive accomplishments for Trump and challenges for Hillary? #surprised
sadness	tweets	No quite sure how Craig Gordon's stayed on the park there !!
sadness	tweets	@courtneymee I'm 3 days sober don't wanna ruin it
sadness	tweets	I wanna see you smile I don't wanna see you make a frown
sadness	tweets	@KurakkuSora he is.\nSure his mind was clouded but...]
sadness	tweets	Snores on TL. Boredom sunk in.
sadness	tweets	Season 3 of penny dreadful is on Netflix...well my afternoon is filled
sadness	tweets	Do not grow weary in doing good.'\n\n-@billclinton
sadness	tweets	@SheilaCustis We don't expect women to be violent &amp; discourage it. It's really about how we're raising our boys.
sadness	tweets	LOL! @TheFrankJLopes was just awarded the “F” bomb trophy on #AutoDealerLive, @RealMatKoenig :) #serious
sadness	tweets	Jay Z and Brad Pitt cheated ..Bey stayed Angie left #cheaters #love #lust #sex #couples #relationships #date #marriage #divorce
sadness	tweets	Carry on my wayward son, there'll be peace when you are done. Lay your weary head to rest. Don't you cry no more. #Supernatural
sadness	tweets	@Vixen85Webster yep &amp; I stayed in pjs all day too lol x
sadness	tweets	For those of you who I have footage of but didn’t make it into this mix—don’t get discouraged! I ran out of room on the beat this week.
sadness	tweets	@superbatlane it's true also that he doesn't escape until almost all the car sunk
sadness	tweets	ordered my vacation bathing suits. one less thing to fret about.
sadness	tweets	@cardiff_blues @CardiffBluesSC Italy another round lets not drop our play and take it to them with a big result out there guys #blues
sadness	tweets	@GriffinLaneP @Mediaite The Left has been protected so long, they've lost their reasoning power.
sadness	tweets	New job training= too much meat eating! Oh well. Also- got approved to drive for Lyft! Just need a car... #day35 #sober
sadness	tweets	If you sober better roll another Dutch or if u don't smoke nigga better pour another cup 🍁🍾...
sadness	tweets	Just put the winter duvet on ☃️❄️🌬☔️ #serious
sadness	tweets	@TetraVariations I don't need a mask, but I'll gladly make a donation to help in ur name! Is it Mr. TY Rex or first initial only? #serious
sadness	tweets	#sober life
sadness	tweets	need to sta dating again.I m bored #redheadteen #boldandbeautiful #lost #500aday single men dating Schkeuditz
sadness	tweets	@_Mrs_Peel @lp_lisa @PaulRGoulden @LisaLuscious Might be the pout of a star baker tho !
sadness	tweets	Had a dream last night that Chris Brown created a diss track about Drake and Rihanna called 'I Hit It First' 😳😳 #dark
sadness	tweets	I got a short fuse when im sober.
sadness	tweets	Already plotting next steps if I get cut off by the same minivan in tomorrow's drop-off line. #preschoolpolitics #momthings
sadness	tweets	Never let me see you frown
sadness	tweets	@xxnogard_G88 Welcome to the  dark honey !
sadness	tweets	@WriterlyTweets Supine on the piano—lips parted. #sixwordstory #amwriting #blues #singer
sadness	tweets	7 pax enjoyed the #gloom @Clayorangecrush @F3LakeMurray
sadness	tweets	Kinda wanna just book a vacation and go...anyone wanna tag along? #adventure #serious
sadness	tweets	@Cigna bows out for the moment. Rather than sulk, I'm going to @UCSF for an opinion from the guys studying #Oligodendroglioma. ✌️&amp; ❤️ &amp; 🍩's
sadness	tweets	I need a syfy series to watch I literally have nothing to watch back to back. I already watched #heroes #lost #jericho #fallenskies  etc etc
sadness	tweets	@wabermes The @RavalliRepublic had a good one but then the reporter quit.
sadness	tweets	@jaymohr37 droop saw naked wrestling and asked 'What if I get a hole in one?' #jaymohrsports
sadness	tweets	@TheCatHeSay I may be #alwayshungry but I haven't sunk that low yet!! @Thereluctantcat
sadness	tweets	Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted \n                                              Mt 5:4
sadness	tweets	@kelly_welles they were brilliant weren't they? Made me feel v dull not having one. And why no tattoo emoji! This'll have to do... ⚓️ x
sadness	tweets	When tears r inappropriate: 'This day is holy to our Lord. Do not grieve, for the joy of the LORD is your strength.' Nehemiah 8:10 NIV #joy
sadness	tweets	@DefiantSagacity — Hermione in a sort of thank you before sliding his own plate away from him before frowning at Ron as he continued to —
sadness	tweets	Let's get drunk and tell each other things we're afraid to say when we're sober.
sadness	tweets	@chelseafc let them know it's the
sadness	tweets	@FatedDancer ~together.' Hermione  lowered her voice slightly, sounding somewhat  bitter, perhaps even  rueful. 'That would only get you~
sadness	tweets	Band members wanted. Contact me #NewcastleGateshead #Sunderland #musicians #musicbusiness #musicislife #music #musically #band #blues #folk
sadness	tweets	Been working in Blanchardstown shopping centre for over 2 years now and I only figured out today where Marks &amp; Spencer's is
sadness	tweets	#AskAMan but this does not sound like a #serious issue, cause siyahleka the whole time, just having fun
sadness	tweets	@cherrivarisco @audubonsociety Oh yes, males are colourful and the Females are dull, so that they can blend in to their environment.
sadness	tweets	My name is John Locke and you can't tell me what I can and can't do #lost #アニメ
sadness	tweets	ya boy gets mad tired of pine trees
sadness	tweets	i wonder how a guy can broke his penis while having sex? #serious
sadness	tweets	@NianticLabs .... For example, catching a gloom would yield 6 oddish candies and catching a vileplume would yield 9.
sadness	tweets	@markoheight @Cassie_OB we sound like vampires saying we wanna sink our teeth into the TT lads and their talents 😂😂😂😂😂😂
sadness	tweets	i love the word fret so much and im in heaven
sadness	tweets	Marcos Rojo Marcos Rojo running down the wing. Loved by the blues, feared by the reds
sadness	tweets	Are you serious??
sadness	tweets	@rickygervais my first time in Slough so checked out the new station floor  #LifeOnTheRoad
sadness	tweets	@BillSwindell @DePauwU @dick_nixon I was having breakfast when I seen this?! I blew my cereal in the #sink!!
sadness	tweets	#PeopleLikeMeBecause of some unknown reason but I try to discourage it
sadness	tweets	Bill Clinton: 'Do not grow weary of doing good.' @ClintonGlobal #CGI2016
sadness	tweets	.@billradkeradio is not a fan of The Beat Happening. But that's not to discourage aspiring other Olympia musicians! #KUOWrecord
sadness	tweets	@Piggiewhopays lmao! I can only imagine the frown across that face of yours. #Hilarity
sadness	tweets	@TweeriaLee A stumbling block to the pessimist is a stepping stone to the optimist.
sadness	tweets	@beIIrkes Es, I'm serious 23/8
sadness	tweets	Do not be discouraged by a slowing sales market. This will test your business model and pinpoint #strengths and #weaknesses.' @Ken_Dunn
sadness	tweets	When you get lost in a neighborhood and have to use the gps on your phone to find your way out. #lost #GoogleMaps #blondmoment
sadness	tweets	@emorottie true sonicsatam was serious and a bit dark. Aosth is like super goofy and Looney toonie to a degree
sadness	tweets	TGIF! Hope everyone that needs to find #recovery can and that our friends stay #sober this weekend! @REBOSTreatment @BlvdCenters
sadness	tweets	@pxrfectpeach it's got her little pout
sadness	tweets	@darryella it doesn't chip and it doesn't get dull. Nails gone be looking perfect the whole time, except they gone be grown out 😂
sadness	tweets	it didn't impress me but it didn't depress me'
sadness	tweets	“Do not fret if you are not cool! Humans who follow me, become instantly cool!” #Bot
sadness	tweets	The #pessimist complains about the wind; the #optimist expects it to change; the realist adjusts the sails.' - William Arthur Ward\n#IGNITE
sadness	tweets	@littlemore20 I had a nice Italian ice-cream whilst resting my tired paws. Honey flavoured, naturally! #FurryTails #lost #Venice.
sadness	tweets	I added Paul Walker on Xbox but he just spends all of his time on the dashboard. #dark #humor #funny
sadness	tweets	How much time should I give to my friend who lost his laptop to mourn before I can ask him to give me his laptop charger and extra battery??
sadness	tweets	i can't take u #serious unless u use #emojis
sadness	tweets	Back to forest drama -\nfrom my #Forest #music - series, 2016\n#nature #dark #art #photography #Finland
sadness	tweets	@makai_kishi_ Her eyes stayed glued to the monitor, not turning away for anything
sadness	tweets	“Optimism may sometimes be delusional, but pessimism is always delusional.” —Alan Cohen #believe
sadness	tweets	God's love spring.Of one dat sunk his whole estate for d paltry bribe,of a single apple–n yet proud of our ancestry?❤️🗿
sadness	tweets	That house on #GrandDesigns isn't in a forest it's in a wibbly wobbly pine plantation
sadness	tweets	Beats is accurately all-powerful with respect to high-quality high-frequency speaker in re the extra desolate relating to fire-ea:…
sadness	tweets	gloomy weather puts me in the best mood
sadness	tweets	Dad asked if I was too hungover to function today. Little does he know I stayed sober last night so i could get shit faced tonight 😅
sadness	tweets	The American Idiot record turns twelve today it changed my preppy middle school heart into a desolate punk rock desert I am forever grateful
sadness	tweets	tones - \n: 1/2 of my favourite chris pine stans. i love tones more than anything, mt sweet summer child i will attack anyone who hurts her
sadness	tweets	Amateurs sit and wait for inspiration, the rest of us just get up and go to work.' -- Stephen King #authors #serious #writingtip
sadness	tweets	@hotelplanner I stayed at a hotel who  packed picnic lunches to take on the road!! #BetterTogether @Redlizzy1 @NewfieChic @Ladybug_Vic
sadness	tweets	@cburt43 turn that frown upside down
sadness	tweets	@iJuvia_ \n\nHearing the noises, Akame opened her eyes and sat up, facing Juvia. She didn't expect at all to see someone around and staid --
sadness	tweets	@petercoffin So safe blues are ok. Are reds ok as well? Obviously, battleground states would not.
sadness	tweets	Hello fellow #horror #creepy #dark #stange #story fans, how's your day? #followme and I'll #followback
sadness	tweets	@DDandDeltaboys will be playing in the Bridge Bar @RameltonWhatsOn this sat (24th Sept) #blues #rhythmandblues #ramelton #donegal
sadness	tweets	Oh goodness I'm loving this rainy  day. It's a head down, #creative cap on, &amp; get #lost in your #thoughts kind of day 💭 ☺️ #art #create #biz
sadness	tweets	No one wants to win the wild card because you have to play the Cubs on the road.
sadness	tweets	#Jazz - the #blues is the roots, the rest is the fruits
sadness	tweets	Well i did hear once before that girls are attracted to men that look like their dad!  👌
sadness	tweets	The labor of love is not cheap or inexpensive, it's the time spent earning it. #lackadaisical #dreamer
sadness	tweets	BLUES with BOB HADDRELL &amp; Guests\nFri 23rd Sep 8:30pm - 11:00pm #blues #free #TunbridgeWells
sadness	tweets	@RashidAlMaktoum For #serious #intermediaries all required info about #project or #Owner will be mailed.
sadness	tweets	9/30 Howland Cultural Center, #BeaconNy Vickie Raabin &amp; Chris Raabe #blues #soul 8pm  @LocalMotionWVKR @hiddencitiesnyc 845-831-4988
sadness	tweets	#FF \n\n@The_Family_X \n\n#soul #blues &amp; #rock #band\n\n#music from the #heart\n\nWith soul &amp; #passion \n\nXx 🎶 xX
sadness	tweets	Mmmm #coffee and a good #book on a dreary day! Who can beat that?
sadness	tweets	Sometimes I can't believe I've made it this far.169 days!! I threw out my demons n got #sober #clean, n started #recovery.#Sobriety is #2.
sadness	tweets	All clouded out.\n\n Considering using a camera, 1) star trails 2) eyepiece projection.
sadness	tweets	Learning to trust God can quiet a troubled &amp; restless heart, bring peace to a weary soul, &amp; eliminate the hopelessness that #addiction is!
sadness	tweets	A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty. \n― Winston S. Churchill #quote
sadness	tweets	Alt-J - Hunger of the pine.
sadness	tweets	these grown ass lil boys yeah i can't take them serious.
sadness	tweets	Be strong &amp; courageous. Do not be terrified or discouraged, for the LORD your God will be with you wherever you go.
sadness	tweets	Let the #MrRobot binge begin. #nerdshow #compelling #dark
sadness	tweets	Anyway I'm in a car with a furious white men and I have a really funny story to tell when I'm sober 😂
sadness	tweets	#RiceFODays now I am Alex Butler's class on financial management. Starts off with a great, relevant class discussion: movies and sunk costs
sadness	tweets	There is no dark side in the moon. In fact, it's all dark.'\nGerry O'Driscoll at the end of 'The Dark side of the Moon'
sadness	tweets	@BluesfestByron second artist announcement looking good #bluesfest2017  #Music #byronbay
sadness	tweets	now playing yung fav song ni chavs #sober 😂
sadness	tweets	@BlurtAlerts 'the darkest of nights can be bright, the solemn of faces lights up with a smile'. -@Totemprince believe in me, as I do in you
sadness	tweets	@kcbbcxo don't get discouraged! it's early on &amp; it can get overwhelming. keep reading &amp; use cue cards 😊 it'll get better!!
sadness	tweets	Damn gud #premiere #LethalWeapon...#funny and
sadness	tweets	I can't mourn Kid Cudi cause we have Travis Scott...
sadness	tweets	Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. Romans 12:12
sadness	tweets	Isaiah 40:31\nthose who trust in the Lord will find new strength.\nThey will soar high on wings like eagles.\nThey will run and not grow weary.
sadness	tweets	@AMB4JC @drtonyevans It's our job, the job of people who r still sane,still ok in life, to help the lost to find themselves &amp; love eachother
sadness	tweets	Unmatched Party Specialist /co @T3RevNeverEnd #serious #job #titles
sadness	tweets	Honestly don't give af who wins out of us and pine, I'm just worried about getting drunk Saturday night😂
sadness	tweets	I don't think Luca understands how serious I am about Fall....he has no idea what's in store for him 😂😂
sadness	tweets	I keep feeling the heaviness on my left hand and look down and I am in awe every single time 😍💍 #notusedtoit #imafiancée #wut
sadness	tweets	the rappers who stayed true to the game is rich.
sadness	tweets	@thetroche94 @ramiro_cedeno yeah if you want to become obese it is! 😅 I can afford it so I don't think it's that serious haha
sadness	tweets	@Hails_Berry8 @sajedhariri23 varsity pine riding
sadness	tweets	The difference between someone's selfies when they're happy vs. unhappy is absolutely amazing.
sadness	tweets	@KatelynKolsrud thanks mucho kate💕 #sober
sadness	tweets	@hyattd335 #Grateful for #novel #award #promo #RT - #Blessings DeWayne Hyatt #Hippie who loves to grind on the #blues #Florida
sadness	tweets	@CrucialBMXShop ohh silver lake came up a lot on there! Is that where you guys stayed?
sadness	tweets	@Damn_It_Dillon @SamUndomiel of course! This is a happy hentai, not a sad or gloomy one
sadness	tweets	@VaunWilmott @PrisonBreak @PBWritersRoom linc the sink
sadness	tweets	@Lesdoggg take me with you!! JK. Have fun, relax, get a massage or two and chill. Don't eat the cucumbers, most places frown on that.
sadness	tweets	We stayed up all night long\nMade our drinks too strong\nFeeling ten feet tall\nRopes swinging into the water\nIn the middle of the night
sadness	tweets	why do i have such a thing for dark curly hAIR
sadness	tweets	Well i did hear once before that girls are attracted to men that look like their dad!  👌 #serious
sadness	tweets	A tummy full of steak, wine, key lime pine and cuddles on tap. What a way to turn around a stressful Wednesday 💛
sadness	tweets	Free live music in DC tonight!  #blues with #MoonshineSociety at @thehamiltondc in the Loft starting at 10:30pm @FreeinDCBlog @WTOPFreebies
sadness	tweets	@hannah_2401 hannah stop being mournful and chill 💁
sadness	tweets	Guys! Read my #fanfiction if you like #lost and #housemd I have one of each #tvshow -link in bio!
sadness	tweets	@m_giacchino will this be aired on radio or filmed? Lots of fans over the pond too! #wales
sadness	tweets	Very long day. Thank goodness for Bake Off to brighten up a weary Wednesday ☺ #GBBO
sadness	tweets	TONIGHT - Fulford Arms, York \nTOMORROW - Bank Top Tavern, Oldham\nNEXT SATURDAY- Big Hands, Manchester \n\n#livemusic #punk #blues #rockandroll
sadness	tweets	I'm so proud he understands this, he shows love, thought and compassion    and it's not done in a clouded way..
sadness	tweets	blues bar
sadness	tweets	@GOP she's ahead in the polls &amp; after Trumps dismal performance at upcoming debate, it will be an easy win for Hillary.
sadness	tweets	@urbaneprofessor roast them. Then risotto with sage and pine nuts
sadness	tweets	Happiness is always there. You just have to choose to see it. There's no point dwelling in the dark and ignoring the light of the stars.
sadness	tweets	Good morning chirpy #SpringEquinox and your pensive sister #AutumnEquinox A perfect day however it is expressed 🌹🍁🌓☯️ #theBeautyofBalance
sadness	tweets	also who has amazon prime that would like to help a girl out LOL #serious
sadness	tweets	I added Paul Walker on Xbox but he just spends all of his time on the dashboard.  #humor #funny
sadness	tweets	Nice to see Balotelli back to his best, good player.. Just lost his way a bit!
sadness	tweets	@KatieBurnett ha freshers blues would love to re do all again ... ha nice tshirt .. vote for Pedro
sadness	tweets	What do you get when you cross an #apple tree and a #pine tree? 🍎🌲\nNothing. You can't cross-pollinate #deciduous and #coniferous #trees.
sadness	tweets	Please bear with me, I'm not Twitter savvy😝 in real life I'm a Facebook person. Help me gain followers 🤓 #blog #selfhelp
sadness	tweets	@RiRiMathew even when we're fighting I'm laughing. I probably have serious ingrained issues😂🤗
sadness	tweets	@SquidWasTaken Pfft- Yeye, i'm a sucker for bright yellow, red, pink, and blues when it comes to coloring or backgrounds haaa
sadness	tweets	Never a dull moment when talking to Nell 😂😂😂😂😋
sadness	tweets	Never dull moment here
sadness	tweets	#picoftheday : How...why... Really... !!\n    #funny #picoftheday #lol #random #laugh #chair #of #despair #funnypics  #virgin #cafe #i...
sadness	tweets	@EBled2 Great to have you as our tournament chair and award was #serious
sadness	tweets	@DarbyHogle the red one would look super pretty with a bronzy glowy nude lip makeup look! 3rd black would be pretty with a dark lip! 😍
sadness	tweets	@PottzGaming hmu need players for lans next year. DM me. Need serious players. Im under org
sadness	tweets	#FF @ElizaNealsRocks Love &amp; support, always!! Eliza Neals ROCKS!! #blues #music #friends 😎🎸
sadness	tweets	@VivienLloyd Thank you so much! Just home - stunned but so happy. Don't think it has sunk in yet! Wow.
sadness	tweets	Just put the winter duvet on ☃️❄️🌬☔️
sadness	tweets	@SilkInSide @TommyJoeRatliff that's so pretty! I love the sky in the background and the purple highlights with the dull colors is great
sadness	tweets	@BluesfestByron second artist announcement looking good #bluesfest2017 #blues #Music #byronbay
sadness	tweets	I can literally eat creamy pesto pasta topped with grilled chicken, sun dried tomatoes, asparagus and pine nuts every single day of my life
